HTLV-III antibody test
dyer@spdcc.UUCP (Steve Dyer)
03/09/86
Anonymous "George" brings up an interested question that hasn't been
discussed here in any length, namely, whether or not to be tested
for exposure to HTLV-III.

I had dinner recently with a couple, one of whom is a psychiatrist, the other
a psychiatric social worker, who both work for Boston's Gay and Lesbian
Counseling Service.  Aside from the obvious issues of stigmatization and
confidentiality, they ask men who are concerned about HTLV-III exposure
and are considering being tested:

	"What would you do differently, if you knew?"

They argued pretty persuasively against being tested, for the following
reasons:

1.) a negative test is no license for increased sexual activity
    (to be meaningful, you'd have to be tested weeks to months after
    each new sexual partner, when in the meantime, you could be spreading
    the virus.)  In essence, every gay man should be behaving as if he were
    exposed, regardless of the test results.

2.) Denial (as in not knowing one's HTLV-III exposure) can be thought of as
    having some positive effects.  Too often, they have seen people who went
    to be tested out of curiosity, who, after hearing that they test positive,
    end up with severe emotional stress, certainly reducing their quality of
    life.

-- 
Steve Dyer
dyer@harvard.HARVARD.EDU
{bbncca,bbnccv,harvard}!spdcc!dyer

-----------------------------------------------------------------

hartwell@apple.UUCP (Steve Hartwell)
03/12/86
My decision to not take the HTLV-III test was based on my doctor's advice.
There certainly are political concerns against taking it, most of which are
similar to registering for the draft, etc., in which organizations which
have no right to the information can often obtain it against our will.

But for me, the deciding factor was the consequences.  I asked my doctor
what his advice is to patients who test negative (no HTLV-III virus), and
he said that he recommends following the safe sex guidelines and reducing
the number of sex partners, to avoid exposure to the virus.  Then I asked
what his advice is to patients with the virus, and his advice was the same,
to avoid exposing their partners.

The "relief" I might feel from a negative test result would in no way
offset the anxiety I would certainly feel if I tested positive.  The odds
are too negatively swayed; I'd rather not know.

Steve Hartwell

-- 
Steve Hartwell, Apple Computer

{nsc, dual, voder, ios}!apple!hartwell	(UUCP)
hartwell@Apple.CSNET			(CSNET)
hartwell%Apple.CSNET@CSNET-RELAY	(ARPA)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

wendyt@pyramid.UUCP (Wendy Thrash)
03/13/86
Well, I took it.  Why would a Lesbian take the test?  About three years
ago, in a misguided attempt to become straight, I fell in love with a
bisexual man.  The man who had been his lover for the preceding five
years died last year of AIDS.  I didn't know whether he had contracted
the virus before or after he and my lover broke up.

It was after (apparently), and I seem to be OK (test negative).
I'm limiting my experimentation from now on.  In my case the test gave
me some peace of mind.  It's true the consequences are the same -- be
careful -- but I had to know.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

keith@telesoft.UUCP (Keith Shillington @spot)
03/19/86
I got my (negative) results back yesterday.

I took the test wanting to know so that my interactions with other
human beings could be guided.  Should there be documentable evidence
that I am a possible carrier (of any disease) I am going to alter my
behaviour accordingly.  I am the kind of person that will not go to
work when I am catching a cold, not because I feel bad, but because I
don't want to infect other people.

Knowing I am negative affirms that I have been "playing safe", and
will not alter that.  I am certainly NOT going to INCREASE my risk at
all.  Were I to test positive, I would become extra careful about who
I let lick my spoon etc.  I realize that the level of risk of sharing
utensils etc. is extremely low, and I consider it to be only polite to
be considerate (extremely considerate) of the health of others.

If you can take the screen without endangering yourself somehow (i.e.
the test is anonymous) I recommend you do so, not for yourself, but
for your friends.

Keith
-- 
Keith Allan Shillington   telesoft!keith@SDCSVAX.ARPA   619/457-2700x388.ATT
			  {ucbvax!sdcsvax,celerity,bang}!telesoft!keith.UUCP
