Movie Review: Parting Glances
feldman@tle.DEC (Gary Feldman)
03/10/86
Given the recent glut of topical movies, it's real refreshing to see a movie
that doesn't have any newsworthy theme, but just happens to be about a gay
couple.  "Parting Glances" is a brief look into the lives of Michael and Robert,
who've been together for five years, their relationship, and the various
relationships between them and their friends.

The title of the movie is derived from two imminent departures.  Robert, who
works for the International Health Organization (or was it the World H. O.?) is
about to leave for Africa, where he has been assigned to what is officially
expected to be a two year tour of duty.  In the meantime, Michael's closest
friend Nick has AIDS, so that Michael has to cope with losing the two people who
are closest to him (even though Robert's transfer is acknowledged to be
temporary).  

We also get to meet Robert's boss Cecil and his wife Betty, at a going away
dinner that they give for Robert and Michael.  Betty knows the two are lovers,
but believes that Cecil has blinded himself to that fact.  The truth is that
Cecil knows, and it is Betty who is blind to Cecil's fondness for members
of the same sex.  Yet this situation gives rise to an observation by Betty that
is one of the main points being made by the movie, namely that in any love
relationship there is a "kisser" and a "kissee", that is, one who gives the
bulk of the affection, and the other who agrees to receive it.  In her case, she
is the kisser, and is quite content with Cecil's limited need for affection,
even though she doesn't know his reasons.  However, we can easily apply her
insight to Robert and Michael, since we see that it is almost always Robert who
initiates the physical affection between the two.

Later, we start to understand the relationship between Michael and Robert a
little better.  We learn about Michael's long standing and greater love for
Nick, while it is Robert's insecurity that forces him to plan on being away
until after Nick dies.  In spite of the imperfections in their relationship, and
the few occasions that the movie threaten's us with the possiblity of a
break-up, we are always supported with signals of stability that reassure us
about the success of their relationship.  I believe we get to see the complexity
behind Betty's oversimplification, and thus learn that the best couplings are
not built on the greatest love.

One thing I liked about the movie was the honesty of the characters to
themselves.  While they weren't always honest to each other about their
feelings, I think that each person knew his or her own feelings -- even Robert,
who knew he was confused.  Michael could talk about his love for both Robert and
Nick, and I believe knew why he was coupled with Robert, even though his love
for Nick was greater.  In spite of Cecil's covert rompings, both he and Betty
understood that their relationship was built primarily on a Platonic sort of
love, every bit as important as erotic love.  Even Nick understands the
depression that has hit him because of his illness, although he depends on
Michael for staying afloat.

Some secondary points:  Even though one of the major supporting characters has
AIDS, this is clearly a movie about people, and not about the disease.   While
the sound quality could have been better (and this may have been the fault of
the theater, not the movie), overall the technical quality was excellent, given
the limited market for the film, and presumably the limited resources of the
producers; the cinematography is basic, but professional; the dialogue and
acting flow smoothly, and is never forced; the love scenes are neither
exploitative nor sanitized, but are quite comparable to what we might expect
from a Hollywood PG-13 or soft R heterosexual love scene.

Since stereotypes are a hot topic on motss these days, I admit to having
detected a bit of the New York City guppy stereotype in the film.  Michael and
Robert are both handsome, white, young professionals (but at least they're not
doctors nor lawyers; Robert is a health administrator, while Michael is an
editor).  Their apartment is Upper West Side (I think, but it might have been
Prospect Park or some other -uppie NY neighborhood), but is discreetly furnished
and not particularly gay.  The friends we see at a second going away party,
given by their artist friend Jean, are, however, very stereotypical chic (the
sort we might expect to show up at a Woody Allen party, if he were to ever film
a NY artist's party that was 60% gay).  While I may be overly sensitive to the
stereotype (being an ex-New Yorker myself), I wasn't offended by it, since the
characters weren't plastic.

In summary, I left the theater feeling good, with a renewed faith in the future
of gay life.  I give "Parting Glances" 3 1/2 stars; don't miss it.  Playing now
at the Brattle Theater (off of Harvard Square, Cambridge), and fine cinemas
everywhere.
 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

