A backbone is only as strong as its weakest link.
on@hpda.UUCP
05/23/86
Mark

There is some real truth to the statement "more heat than light" concerning
several newsgroups mentioned in your talk.* proposal. However I think that 
one newsgroup in particular is not in that category. I refer to net.motss
It is true that net.motss had some problems with one particular individual
but that situation has been resolved, and the party in question has promised
to desist from posting to net.motss. Gay people are an invisible minority
We exist in significant numbers throughout all cultures and all societys.
As a result of the underground imperative that currently exists within the
Gay experience it is a common effect that our ways , needs, and goals remain
out of the spotlight until something happens to focus attention in our 
direction. Picture a cat that goes about its business without notice until
someone steps on its tail!

Non Gay people  are largely unaware of the hardships that Gay people must
suffer, and the scope of oppression that we deal with in daily life. Homo
phobia is deeply ingrained in our western culture and continuously chips
away at our basic human rights like darkness follows daylight. We are used
to it, and many of us are very sensitized to it. When you receive replies
to your proposal that accuse you of homophobia , please be aware that  it 
is directed at the institutionized factors, and probably not the individuals
who are reflecting them. (I don't mean to speak for anyone else, this is my 
opinion of course)

In this light I think that net.motss should be removed from the list, or failing
that it should be joined by net.singles for no other reason than fairness.

Actually I think that it is a bad idea to amputate any of the sorely affected 
groups yet. It doesn't take much perusal of the listed groups to see that 
the vast majority of the "heat" is coming from a few selected furnaces!
Perhaps its time to really take the abusers to task about their motives.
(And I don't mean just call them assholes for the umpteenth time ! )

Its not fair to those who have genuine concern in the areas of politics, and
religion, and gender studies to be singled out for ostracism because of the 
excesses of a few. Many other non-technical and potentially frivolous 
newsgroups pass lots more traffic than those mentioned. Net.jokes has 
already been mentioned, and other high traffic groups like net.sf-lovers
and net.games.frp are others I would call attention to. 

It seems to me that if there is a question of what kind of traffic should be 
divided from that which a corporate entity would find valuable, I would make
that division wide sweeping and separate the newsgroups into Technical and 
Non Technical. Making decisions about which non technical groups are worthwhile and which are trash  requires the wisdom of Solomon and I for one know that I
don't have it !

The USENET is a powerful experiment in global communication that is not 
dependent on big media control. It is through the generosity and sometimes
the unknowing cooperation of the Corporate world that the backbone transmits
this glorious anarchy. What they pay to Ma Bell today they will recapture
in the benefits that all of society will gain by the experience.
We are not just nerds with our heads glued to technical journals, we have 
interests that span the realm of human experience, and the usenet reflects this.

I will admit to having gotten caught up in the excitement of battle in a few
categorys myself, but I get no kicks from beating my head against a wall, and
thats what it became !
So now boys and girls its time to moderate ourselves or get ready for the ax.
We can foil the executioner if the *problem* groups clean up their act.....
maybe

To those word warriors who have the time, patience, and inclination to fill
up miles of oxide just to hear yourself talk, buy a tape recorder and some 
radio time!

To the creative crusaders who can't pass up the challenge of sharpening their
wit on someone elses public foolishness (myself included!) post it on the 
ESPnet and exercise prudence on the usenet.

To the Prophets of big profits, and other watchdogs of the corporate dollar
renew your subscriptions to the Wall Street Journal and go do the crossword 
puzzle or something........ "Thats ok mr controller, we're not the nerds
your looking for "

LUX ..on
Owen Rowley
hplabs!hpda!on

-----------------------------------------------------------------

