Weird Concepts and the concept of "drag" in the gay ghetto
rob@ptsfb.UUCP (Rob Bernardo)
02/24/86
I have been following with interest the discussion on the non-traditional
and stereotypical behavior of some gay men because oddly enough the past
few years I have been finding myself *more* turned off by many sorts of
behavior particular to the gay ghetto.

One area that I have thought a lot about is the concept of "drag".
I think there is a confusion between the concept of costume (drag)
and non-costume dress prevalent in the gay ghetto . And I suspect
what happened is this:

In the earlier days of the gay liberation movement, many gay thinkers
(including yours truly) realized there were lots of gay behaviors that
really didn't need any apologizing for and that, in fact, on closer
examination they were actually quite parallel to more traditionally
acceptable behavior. Many thought, "We don't need to apologize for
drag. After all the person who works in the financial district puts
on a costume of a suit/tie to *show* others how he fits in and
is successful -- isn't that drag?"

And so, I suspect, the concept of drag was extended to *any mode of
dress*. And any mode of dress was considered a costume of one sort or another,
but a costume, and therefore a put-on, nevertheless. This was then
used as a rationalization for dressing in whatever way one wanted
and for thinking that wearing a costume wherever one pleased should
not be looked on as "wrong" or "improper".

I think an important distinction was missed in that line of thinking,
being the *intention* a person has in dressing a certain way.
The intention makes the difference in whether a set of clothes is
a costume or not. *To the extent* that you put on some clothes with
the intention of them making a statement about yourself, it is a costume.
When a gay man puts on a leather outfit before going cruising at a
leather bar in order to demonstrate "I am a tough MAN, and I am going
to treat you rough.", that's a costume. When a gay man puts on a
cowboy hat before going out socially so that others with think of
him as a cowboy for their sexual fantasy, that is a costume. When
a business man deliberately selects a certain suit or certain
attache case because they connote success, that is a costume.

However, there are complications to this analysis.

One is the difference between the intent the wearer had in putting on certain
clothes and the intent the viewer *infers* that the wearer had in putting
on those clothes.

The second is that once a costume becomes comfortable and commonplace for a
person, the person may put it on *without* the intent that he used to have.
Then it no longer becomes a costume. Many styles of dress that were originally
costumes in the gay ghetto have become commonplace modes of dress over time.
Many gay men on Castro Street wear leather outfits casually (I suspect)
simply because (I suspect) they just like that look and they feel comfortable
dressing that way. However, to someone outside that community, the clothes
still appear to be a costume, because he infers an intended *statement* in
the clothes.

The third complication is that intent (in *any* area of behavior) can
be conscious as well as unconscious. I can imagine someone arguing that
in the case of the leather outfit worn "casually", the intent of making
the "I-am-your-sexual-fantasy" statement has merely become unconscious.

I think this analysis of the concept of "drag" can be applied to many
of the non-traditional behaviors (e.g. put-on effeminacy and camping)
common in the gay ghetto. The extent to which a gay community
becomes a ghetto and in-grown, certain behaviors that were originally
done "for effect" grow to be casual, and appear (wrongly or rightly)
to be "affected" to the person outside that community.
