Should book ads disclose sexual slan
richw@ada-uts.UUCP
12/31/85
In my opinion, all of your questions have a "No" answer.
I haven't read the book, so take this with a grain of salt, if you like.

The book description is fine as it stands.  It could be more specific,
sure, but I don't think you should have trouble identifying with the
gay character(s) of the book.

Other than the differences in "physical specifics" between gay and
straight sex, I don't see how gay relations ALWAYS differ from straight
relations.  Unless you can come up with some specific characteristic
of gay relationships which a) are unique to gay relationships and
b) you can never relate to, I don't think you have any reason to
avoid books including gay relationships.  Gay relationships are
just relationships.

Of course, the "physical specifics" of gay sex may be what you want to
avoid thinking about or trying to relate to.  If that's the case,
I still don't think the description need be more specific.  Some people
are disgusted by the idea of gay sex; disgust is in the gut of the
beholder, I guess.  But if you don't like thinking about gay sex,
that's your problem; I might not want to read books about women that
cheat on men because I'm disgusted by such behavior, but it's not
reasonable for me to expect book summarizers to warn me of such books.

Another (unfortunate) unique characteristic of gay relationships is
that the gays involved have to (today, at least) deal with the social
stigmas attached to being gay.  No, straight people cannot truly
identify with this, but I don't think this is reason to stop reading.

I'm actually curious to hear of any aspects of gay relationships
which are unique TO gay relationships.  A friend of mine is gay
and I've never been able to see such differences in his relationship
with his male friends.

-- Rich Wagner

P.S.  Some people think that being able to talk about common
      problems/joys is an important characteristic of friends.
      If you think book descriptions should be more explicit
      about the type of sex they describe, then it seems like
      you could also conclude that people should wear "Straight"
      or "Gay" buttons so one can better choose friends...

-----------------------------------------------------------------

aegroup@tekigm.UUCP (Dennis Ward)
01/07/86
(message was not found)
