Excerpts from the World
kgdykes@watbun.UUCP
12/17/85
 "Outrage" is an Australian News Magazine of a similar format to Toronto's
very own "Body Politic".  It is available in Toronto from Glad Day Books
for $3.95/issue.
 It features a section entitled "Overkill" which is excerpts of news from
around the world -- which is kinda nice, afterall who can afford all the
news magazines from around the world...
 The following is a couple of items in the Sept/85 issue:
 
  LONDON -- World War II revisted.  Having spent some months of idle
  speculation about whether the late Lord Louis Mountbottom was or wasn't
  (Phillip Ziegler says no, everybody else says yes), now we hear stories
  about another WWII hero, Lord Montgomery.  A new book, "Monty at Close
  Quarters", relates that the field marshall had a crush on a young Swiss
  of the male gender, one Lucien Treub, who has, now that Monty's been
  dead for some years, decided to cash-in and reveal all.  He has letters,
  etc. to prove it.  What next? "I Was Himmler's Boyfriend" ?
 
  WEST HOLLYWOOD -- You remember that nice story we ran a while back about
  how gays had taken over the West Hollywood and turned it into the model
  gay city, with a lesbian mayor and everything?  Well, things haven't
  turned out quite the way we'd hope.  The new gay city faces some very
  American problems.  First, it seems that Mayor Terrigno is a trifle
  embarrassed over some unanswered questions about her finances.  As a
  result, another gay councillor, John Heilman, is trying to tip her out
  of her job.  Everybody is getting very heated.  The council have adopted
  a very Californian solution to this nasty state of affairs:  they have
  gone off to a psychiatrist to have some interpersonal skill situation
  training.
 
    ...continued

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
12/19/85
For the record, Heinrich Himmler, head of the SS, was violently anti-homo-
sexual, more so than Hitler himself.  Militant heterosexuality, meaning as
well violent antihomosexuality, was a central part of Nazi ideology and
practice.  Chronologically the first target of Nazi mass violence after
Hitler was elected Chancellor in 1933 was Magnus Hirschfeld's Institute
for Sex Research in Berlin (Hirschfeld was one of the earliest gay
activists), which was sacked one night, its unique and enormous collection
of books on sex & sexuality put to the torch in a public bonfire.  This
incident proved to be a kind of model for subsequent Nazi raids and
victimizations.

The only high-placed Nazi that was homosexual or bisexual that I know of
was Goering.  Ernst Roehm, head of the equally violent & bigoted SA, a
rival to Hitler's Nazi's in the early 30s, was also homosexual or bisexual,
and was slaughtered with a few thousands of his followers one night in a
treacherous assault by Hitler.

The license implied in jokingly wondering if Himmler was gay stems from
the fag-baiting tactics adopted by the European and North American left 
in the 1930s (& 40s?) in an attempt to discredit the Nazi regime.

						Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

oleg@birtch.UUCP (Oleg Kiselev)
12/22/85
(message was not found)
