A coupl of added points to Auntie Dion
levasseur@morgan.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin  223-5027)
12/07/85
    I had a break in my busy schedule and while waiting for a long batch
to run would like to add a couple of pointers to Auntie Dion's wisdom.
An old friend of mine met a very cute guy in a bar and they became bar
buddies. Mind you they never slept together but enjoyed (so my friend
thought) each other's company. Auntie Dion is right about the hustler
type biding his time for the hit; it depends on how much the leech stands
to gain in the deal. This guy had been to my friend's place a few times
but my friend had never been to his. About 6 months after they met the
guy told my friend that he'd really love to sleep with him and always
thought of him as HOT! My friend agreed and took the kid home. 
    When they got to my friend's house he offered the kid a drink and
the kid just said, "tell me where the liquor is and I'll make us drinks
Innocent enough, right! Well little to my friend's knowledge, but the
kid slipped him a heavy mickey. They went to bed and he passed out, the
kid faking being asleep.
    My friend woke up about 12 hours later with a true Excedrin headache.
When he got up he found his checkbook, about $2000 worth of stereo equip-
ment and an additional $1500 worth of 35 mm camera stuff gone too. How
did the kid cart it off you ask? Why in my friend's 6 month old Pontiac
Trans Am. They found the car in New Jersay a couple of weeks later. It
had been stripped. The police caught the kid, who had already fenced the
goodies. When the judge found out that this was a homosexual incident
the kid got off with no sentence and my friend lost his job due to the
publicity reaching his employer. Sounds pretty nasty huh? Well it all
happened as described. Now I'll share one additional hint to Dionysus.

o I have been in potentially the same situation where a one nighter or
  repeat has offered to mix the drinks while I'm in the bathroom. If
  they insist, I will undoubtedly follow and observe their bartending
  talents very closely. I do this even if I go to their place. It may
  sound paranoid but sure has kept me out of potential trouble. 

o The same goes for when I'm in a gay bar. Sure there are a lot of nice
  folks at the bars, but there's an equal amount of scum. If I go to the
  bathroom I take my drink with me. If I'm asked to dance, I finish my
  drink first. Over the years I've known quite a few guys who have been
  slipped something while leaving their drink unattended. One friend of
  mine was rushed to Mass General suffering from what appeared to be
  an acute psychotic episode. What happened was that the guy he was chat-
  ting with slipped LSD in his beer and split while he was away.

o I also refuse to leave someone alone in my apartment when I have an
  errand to do. A few guys have said, "if you don't mind I'll stay here
  while you run out for cigarettes". I politely tell them that I really
  don't like leaving someone who I don't know extremely well. They will
  either say "ok" and come along or get very defensive, "whatsa matter
  think I'm gonna rip you off or something?"

o I also don't give keys to my apartment to someone that I'm dating, no
  matter how much they tell me, "but I love you!" My first lover offered
  me a key on the second date and I refused.

    Dionysus has offered some very good advice in his article. He and I
have chatted face to face and via electronic mail many times about these
slime. I just wanted to add a couple things

                                         Ray (aka) Jason

-----------------------------------------------------------------

