Gay Games II & South African participation
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
02/10/86
I've read that despite an original assurance that South African players
would not be invited (because of the all-white makeup of South African
teams and the longstanding international boycott in athletics), the
organizers of Gay Games II have accepted an all-white South African
contingent to the Games.  Because of this, Scotland has just announced
it would boycott the Games.  Another nation (Canada? Netherlands?) has
already pulled out.

Does anybody out in the Bay area know what kinds of pressure/protest
are being brought to bear on the organizers, and if they're likely to
revoke South Africa's invitation?

I ask because I'm thinking about attending the games, and maybe even
participating in squash racquets (I don't remember whether the Bay
area, in exception to the rest of the West, has squash courts).

I don't think everyone should cancel their participation without waiting
a decent interval to see if the decision can be revoked (the Games are
scheduled for this summer).  Mainstream athletics has many other
international sporting events besides the Olympics.  Gay Games is the
only international gay sporting event I know of, and the only national
one besides the Gay Rodeo (though gay outdoors clubs now have an
international organization, IGLOO).  On the other hand, athletic
apartheid practiced by gay South Africans is inexcusable, however
difficult the situation of even white gays may be in South Africa.
If the Gay Games II organizers don't revoke their decision, I think
everyone should boycott the Games.  I will.


						Regards,
						Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

keith@whuxl.UUCP (TITUS)
02/13/86
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
02/14/86
Since I raised the issue, here's more info obtained from a friend
last night to shed light on the situation.

The international boycott against South Africa isn't against all-
white teams (many of South Africa's teams are in fact interracial,
I'm told) but against apartheid; the boycott was called by other
African nations, eg, Kenya, and my informant seemed to think that
conformity to the boycott was mainly out of political expedience:
ie, it was more important not to offend Kenya than South Africa.

He also thought homosexuality was heavily surpressed, taboo in
South Africa (the situation must be bad, but I vaguely remember
reading about a few gay bars, and a gay organization, maybe assoc-
iated with universities--Witwatersrand?) as a result of conversa-
tions with a gay South African exile here, so that inviting a
South African contingent to the Games is extending recognition
to an oppressed minority in a very repressive society.  He pointed
out that many North American contingents to the Games are probably
all-white.  Given the interracial composition of South African
teams, the all-white makeup of the gay contingent may be simply
incidental, or a reflection of the difficulty of being both non-white,
gay, and in touch with gay white athletes in South Africa.


					Regards,
					Ron Rizzo
