A bunch of things...
mark@apple.UUCP (Mark Lentczner)
02/18/86
[]
Ok, the volume on net.motss has been a bit overwhelming (about time...)
and I have a bunch of things to add my two cents to.  I'll try to be
breif about this, so don't interpret my short explinations as lack of
though :-)   Here goes...

1) "Us Look Bad"
  a) There is nothing wrong with sexual advertising/articles in some
     gay magazines in my mind.  In think someone elses comment (forgot
     the name) that there are (or should be) enough gay publications
     that they will cater to various likes/dislikes is very apt.  It
     not only applies to whether people like/dislike sexual items but
     also any like/dislike. ("Where can I find a literay rag with some
     sexual stuff, and just the right blen of politics, etc...")
  b) Someone else said that the commonality of being gay was essentially
     being sexual with a member of the same sex.  I couldn't disagree
     more.  The commonality of being gay is having a 'deep' relationship
     with a member of the same sex.  Now 'deep' may mean sexual for some
     and may mean marriage for others and may mean any range of things
     in between - but I feel the essence is the same sex reltaion part,
     not just what that relation is.
2) "Effeminate behavior"
  I, too, am a little put off by the article form the MIT person regarding
  effeminate behavior.  I have known many effeminate men (or rather many
  man with a range of 'effeminate' behaviors) both straight and gay.  The
  key is that with social acceptance people with behave as they feel most
  natural and that's fine with me if it's leather butch or raging queen or
  anywhere in between.  And furthermore, I hope that we stop thinking in
  terms of catagories of behavior, since people change or time and circustance:
  I can be 'straight looking/acting' (st lkg/actg :-) as well as swish.
  It depends on how I feel at the time...
3) "Children"
  Damn it, children are a burning gay topic!  I'm a gay male and I want to
  raise children.  Case in point.  (And I'd love to hear more on the net from
  people raising children in homes with two gay adults)

-mark lentczner

-----------------------------------------------------------------

