Dating?
feldman@tle.DEC (Gary Feldman)
01/06/86
Back in my more carefree days, the mechanics of cruising were easy (even if the
success rate was less than spectacular).  We'd meet, dance, go home and screw,
etc.  If I slept with the same guy more than once within a short time span, then
I'd feel justified in at least entertaining thoughts of romance (not that I was
ever into these whirlwind affairs that seem so common).  I also wouldn't chase
after someone who was clearly just sleeping around, since my assumption would be
that he's just interested in sex and not in romance.  (Nothing wrong with that,
just not what I wanted.)

Now, however, the tables are turned, the rules have changed (at least mine have,
for a variety of reasons), and I'm following a more traditional (dare I say 
heterosexual) approach to dating.  Unfortunately, I never bothered to learn how
to date back when I was in school.

First, I wonder how gay men react to dating someone who is also dating others. 
Currently, I'm a little reluctant to give totally honest excuses such as "I
can't go with you Friday because I already have another date".  I guess I'm not
quite used to the idea of "dating many, sleeping with none", and I'm afraid that
my friends will share this confusion and turn it into distrust or dismissal.

Second, how does one turn a platonic friendship into a romantic relationship?
Or perhaps a better question is how long should it take?  I'm so used to 
sex first that part of me is very impatient, while the more rational parts of me
are torn between the risks of moving too quickly and the risks of moving too 
slowly. 

I apologize for making this so personal, but it seemed the best way to provide
context.  I hope this will turn into a general discussion of dating and changing
social practices of gay men, and not into a session of amateur psychoanalysis.

   Gary

Generic disclaimer: These opinions are my own, and I certainly hope my employer
has neither an interest nor an opinion on my private life.
---------
Nashua, NH: Where the men are a lot more interesting than they were where I
used to live.

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

peterson@tle.DEC (Bob Peterson at Spitbrook  DTN 381-2106)
01/08/86
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

cycy@isl1.ri.cmu.edu (Christopher Young)
01/09/86
I'm writing this in response to the question of gay dating. Personally, I've
dated men (until I met my mate) and feel it is the best and most logical way
to proceed in a relationship that might take a romantic direction. I really
never got a bad reaction from anybody, but I think Sacramento is more oriented
to that type of thing than larger, more highly populated areas (I just moved
to Pittsburgh; I'm not from here).

In answer to the first question, I don't think anybody should have to apologise
if they wish to date. For that matter, why should anybody apologise for how he
(or she) runs his social life as long as he doesn't hurt anybody else? 
Especially if the constraints are upon oneself. I found a lot of people used to
make me feel guilty about not going to bed with them. Then I realised, what the
hell should I feel guilty about that for? They don't need me for that, and I
have no obligation to them in that regard. So I did what I thought was right,
and if they didn't like it, tough. That was their problem, not mine. But those
who were truely my friends remained so. And it's only silly if you choose it
to be so.

As far as when an intimate relationship should begin, I would say it depends
upon the two individuals involved, and what your goals are. There is
nothing wrong with discussing the issue; it can save a whole lot of confusion.
Discuss your feelings, how you feel about each other. Nothing is 100% certain,
after all. When you both feel the time is really right (based on more than
horneyness) then it undoubtedly will be.

I'm glad this was brought up. For a while, I thought I was the only one who
thought dating was a good idea. I used to hear all this junk about how only
heterosexuals date and we can't/shouldn't do what they do. I think that's
bull. Besides, the attitude that "just because they do it, it's wrong" doesn't
hold water. It's like them saying something similar about us. I'm curious
About what other people think.

				Chris.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rob@ptsfb.UUCP (Rob Bernardo)
01/09/86
(message was not found)
