Out and about
keith@telesoft.UUCP (Keith Shillington @spot)
02/05/86
I suppose this is mainly a supportive respose to Chris's article,
included with various of my opinions in the topic area, at the tail, I
pose a few questions for the net...

> First, I do think that, as a whole, lesbians are way more together than
> gay men.

Well, in general, I agree, and, I am NOT fond of generalizations.  The
moment something is classed or categorized, an equal or greater number
of opposites and counter examples pop up.  My experience, is also that
the persistent activists are typically lesbians.

> As far as straight people and acceptance goes, I think it is impossible to
> make any generalisation about that at all. I seen everywhere from complete
> acceptance to death threats.

Yep.

> Stereotypes can be dangerous, however. Especially negative, bitter ones.
> There are many gay people who just don't engage in "gay" social activities.

Various reasons generate these behaviour patterns.  Not of interest
are situations where an individual is "at risk" in associating
publicly in "gay" events.  Of interest (to me) are people who CHOOSE
not to associate with "birds of a feather"; especially when such
association would clearly be beneficial to the individual.  Obviously
this phenomenon is not unique to the "gay subcommunity" but a total societal
issue.

> ... If somebody gives me a "dead flounder" handshake ...

Yuk.  Throw back the dead fish, and give me a warm hearty grasp...

> ... Dignity ...

The only problem I have with religious organizations is the
antithetical nature of Bible interpretation.  This is indeed a deeply
personal issue, and probably not worth getting flamed about...

> Life is what one makes of it.

Ab so loot lee.  I am what I have made myself to be, and I am the
responsible party for all the good things and all the bad things that
have happened (and will happen) in my life.  To live otherwise would
be folly.

> ... I think Kenwatch is kind of stupid, but understandable. If it were
> more positive (ie., warned newcomers rather than launching vicious 
> counter-attacks), I think I would > like it better. ...

Ahem.  Let us provide an example of communication as opposed to
reaction.  Far too much of what we call communicating is reacting, and
reacting to reaction.  The key element in communication is listening,
and our friend Ken has some things to say.  Granted, there is some
difficulty in reading the message between the noise, albeit, the
message is there.  Often what Ken has to say CANNOT BE IGNORED!  He
represents (I get the impression more violently on the net than in
real life) a wide spectrum of what we, gay people, need to be worried
about.

> But I don't think a person should go sour on an entire, giagantic
> population of people...

A wise policy, especially given what I have said about generalizations..

> I don't want to lessen the point about pettiness, because that and gossip do
> seem to be overly abundant in "gay" culture. But I encourage people to make
> their own culture and their own friends, and to be open to all people.

I feel I have the right to point the vile finger at the "gay culture"
when it comes to gossip.  I am pointing that finger in the mirror, and
it is ugly, ugly, ugly.  I highly recommend that all listen closely to
yourselves when you are gossiping, you will hear what others are
saying about you....

At last, the promised questions:

Stereotypes and generalizations are a two sided coin, what are the
advantages, and disadvantages to having and using them?

How important is acceptance, as opposed with tolerance?  What are the
fundamental differences between intolerance, rejection and persecution?

On avoiding associating with members of the group of whom you are a
member:  Why do you ostracise yourself from the group?  How do you
qualify yourself as a member of THAT particular group?  =AND=  Who
(like REALLY) is not including you?

What is in a handshake?

<religious question deleted>

How is Ken Arndt valuable to the net?  What benefit can we gain from
his existence and persistence?  (I reject no, and none, etc. as answers)

Last, and not least by any stretch of anything...  :-)

Who pays the cost of gossip?

Keith

<< Ho baby, get out the asbestos >>
-- 
Keith Allan Shillington   telesoft!keith@SDCSVAX.ARPA   619/457-2700x388.ATT
{ucbvax!sdcsvax,celerity,bang}!telesoft!keith.UUCP

-----------------------------------------------------------------

strickln@ihlpa.UUCP (Stricklen)
02/07/86
> Stereotypes and generalizations are a two sided coin, what are the
> advantages, and disadvantages to having and using them?
  
Stereotyping and/or generalizing about a class of persons has the
advantage of saving one time and energy.  After all, one need not take
the time to get to know a new person's motivations; one need not listen.
One already knows all one wants to know about the person.  Quite obviously,
the greatest disadvantage is all the missed opportunities this habit
creates -- opportunities to create friendships which extend one's life
experience and knowledge.

> How important is acceptance, as opposed with tolerance?  What are the
> fundamental differences between intolerance, rejection and persecution?

The degree to which acceptance is important to a person depends directly
on how well she or he feels about herself/himself -- how satisfied they
are with their interpersonal relationship(s), how successful they feel
in their careers, how solidly they hold their morals....  To this
"solid" person, acceptance is not important -- but without tolerance,
others begin infringing on his or her pursuit of happiness.

Now on to a pet peeve of mine.  I am tired of the articles stating how
gay behavior in bars and other meeting places is less than savory.  What
does one expect in an atmosphere of competition -- where most persons
are motivated only to find the most gorgeous other, no matter the cost.
For those who believe this is peculiar to gay folks, I would suggest
spending an evening at a corner table in a straight singles bar
frequented by "regulars."  Gossip abounds -- as well as rampant
rejection.

I do not see any advantage to gay persons to highlighting their differences
from the general public.  I suspect closer scrutiny would reveal all
behaviors are largely predictable with an understanding of simple human
nature.

Steve Stricklen
AT&T Bell Laboratories
ihnp4!ihlpa!strickln
