Kiss and make up you two.
levasseur@euclid.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin 223-5027)
02/19/86
Andy:

>>   "I sincerly believe that as homosexuality is more accepted, and
>>    the traditional sterotypes melt away, so will the effeminate gay men."
 
Eric:

>What a stupid, bigoted and thoughtless comment this is!  Who the hell
>cares whether or not you can tolerate effeminate men. And what gives you
>the right to decree what is and is not acceptable gay behavior!
 
    Ooh! Ooh! Andy I think you hit a nerve! (Andy  correct me if I'm wrong)
Look kiddies I was sucking down Harvey Wallbangers at the 1270, before it
was a prepubescent disco while you were still watching Captain Kangaroo
and finger painting. "Peabody! set the way back machine to 10 years B.S.
(before stonewall)". Eric there was once upon a time a period where all the
good little fairies conducted themselves just as society had pigeon holed
us. There were no role models or quazi-weird butch types to look up to. A
homosexual was expected to act (and did to a large degree) just like Quentin
Crisp did in a Naked Civil Servant. Ok so now we're quazi-accepted and we
have butch types to look up to like....uhhh...well like lotsa normal appear-
ing guys who wander the South End, all looking like freshly laundered con-
struction workers. Maybe what Andy was getting to  was that now we don't have
to pretend any more and can be ourselves; the *need* to act nelly might just
go away, but there will always be effeminate gay men as well as straight men.
So what! Will you feel bad Eric if all of a sudden all of the sissies go away?
Read the article in the Christopher Street Reader "Where Have all the Sissies
Gone".

>>   "Unfortunatly, it's the straight acting homosexual who is never counted - 
>>    the news programs miss him, he finds a lover, and vanishes somewhere in 
>>    the suburbs."
 
>Where are you comming up with these concepts?!? It's the homophobic gay
>male wrapped up in all his quazi-weird-butchness that I pitty the most.
>This type of person has more mental problems and hangups than anyone 
>(including Dr. Ruth) could ever possibly iron out. And thats taken from 
>experiance sister, not from some magazine!
 
    Andy does have a point. The average gay "Joe" or is that "Josephine" who
lives in the burbs or finds a lover may become somewhat invisible. So, you may
not see him in his Copa muscle shirt and faded jeans every night at Chaps or
at the gay health club. What is straight acting anyhow??? The media misses him
because they're more interested in capturing the outrageously dressed drag and
leather queens. To show the average looking quazi-normal gay person would bore
the viewing public. Must we all strut down the streets in every city wearing
gold pumps and a lavender "Gay and Proud" tee shirt? Well I suppose it'd make
it easier for those of us up in Nausea N.H. to locate each other!
    Lithen Mary, Watch who yer callin quazi-weird butch. Are you referring to
the "don't kiss or hug me, I don't s*** c***, just roll over and let me F***
you cause I ain't queer". If that's the type you're referring to, then I agree.
If yer referring to the fairly normal acting gay guy with the natural baratone
voice then yer full of doo doo. Eric we're all quazi-weird and pitiful in our
own little ways; you and me included. Maybe Dr Ruth will agree to come to Metro
next Sunday night and give group sex therapy :-)

>Ok, ok,  I can understand the point your trying to get across. But face it; the
>world was not created and molded for the complete personal enjoyment of Andrew 
>Gerber. You need to expand your limited field of vision and learn how to enjoy 
>the many diverse and wonderful people around you (gay as well as straight).
 
    No! the world wasn't created to Andy's specifications but I bet a lot of us
harbor subconscious wishes that it were. Eric, from my talks with you, you seem
to be the eternal optimist who thinks everybody is just devine. Well, there are
a lot of toads out there also :-) I know from experience and not from a text
book. Who's to say, only me talkin.

The homophobic gay, quazi-weird-butch male of net.motss

                                    Ray


Nausea, New Hampster: Where the men are men and the sheep are computer
                      literate.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

