book ads and sexual slant
hsf@hlexa.UUCP (Henry Friedman)
01/07/86
Here is a copy of followups posted to net.sf-lovers:
> Gee, all the replies I've see seem unanimous on pretty much all points. But how
> has this affected Mr. Friedman, the person with the original questions? Would
> he care to indicate his reaction to the feedback?  Is he gonna write the book
> club?  Ever read another book with gay characters?  I presume Delany's latest
> will be shelved and ressurrected only during moments of extreme insomnia.
> ....
> \bob	usenet: decwrl!dec-rhea!dec-vaxwrk!peterson

I appreciate all the feedback, criticisms, flames, etc. While there
was general agreement on some points, the reactions were quite diverse,
taken as a whole.

Some points which hit home were:
1) Read reviews, not just ads.
2) "Blame, etc." are not issues on questions of personal taste.
3) Complain if you think an ad was misleading. (I'd like to send
  them all these reactions, if it were practical to expect the club
  managers to read them. But gee, if I complain and they give me my
  money back, I'll lose my two bonus points :-) ).

I apparently did not make myself clear enough that I didn't find
explicit gay sex scenes shocking or repugnant--just uninteresting.
Also, I didn't cross-post to net.motss to complain to the gay
community--just to give its members a chance to participate in the
discussion of the issue.(I certainly was not surprised at the
general lack of sympathy, but expect that many gay readers,in general, want
to know when a book has special appeal to a gay market. I was amused
by the one guy who thanked me for letting him know the book had
gay appeal, as he didn't particularly like SF, anyway, and 
certainly not if he had to plow through pages of straight sex.)

One interesting point, Jill Rose confirmed a suspicion that others
had voiced: books INTENDED MAINLY to appeal to gay readers are
often marketed in a purposely ambiguous fashion to increase sales.

One person who actually read the book thought I exaggerated the
extent to which explicit gay sex was highlighted. He may be right,
as I stopped at about the exact midpoint of the book based upon
expectations.  At that point there were already indications that
the romantic scenes were to be largely gay. And the two central
characters, after having received computer indications that they
were each other's perfect erotic objects down to 5 decimal places,
were retiring to a bedroom to evaluate this report. I didn't find
this shocking or repulsive, just uninteresting (if much of the
remainder was to be in this vein).

If a review indicates that a book with gay themes or characters
is great (or a great read), I would not AVOID reading it, especially
if the general themes, etc, seemed of interest.

--Henry Friedman

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
01/08/86
I know, I can't seem to shut up, but just a few words in reply to Henry
Friedman's reply:  I read even less-than-great fiction with either no 
erotic content or only the heterosexual kind.  "Only if it's great" sounds 
like "in spite of" to me.  Henry implies tedium or disinterest is the reason
why he'd rather not read descriptions of gay sex.  Many aspects of novels
can be uninteresting to a reader.  I've read fiction whose general subject
is of no interest to me, because the writing, ideas, characters, etc. were
interesting.  Henry's choices are perfectly OK, but I don't see why publi-
shers ought to take cognizance of them, any more than of what bores me in
a book.  

Finally, I think it's worth excepting homosexuality from a general policy
of disclosure of contents, given current attitudes.  Would a similar wish
for disclosure about the race or religion of a book's characters have any
validity?  The fact that you often can identify race and religion from the
cover is not a result of 
