Should book ads disclose sexual sla
tj@texsun.UUCP
12/29/85
   Recently I bought an sf novel from the Quality Paperback
   Book Club, Samuel R. Delany's "Stars in My Pocket Like Grains
   of Sand."  The book club's blurb had read something like:
   "drama of life, death and sexuality in the distant future."
   
   1) Should ads for novels at least suggest whether the sex/romance
      is predominantly straight or gay?  

Why? The book already said it had sexual content. Just how much more 
descriptive does that have to be? Down to the last kiss? Since it seemed
that you did not so much object to the gay content as much as the quantity,
why not just put the book down? 
   
   2) Should it make any difference? In other words, should it have
      mattered to me?

Did it? Whether it mattered to you or not does not seem to me to be the 
point here. You are suggesting that better warnings or at least more accurate 
descriptions of what is in a book be printed on the cover. Remember that 
what is printed on the cover of a book is intended to entice(sp) the reader into
buying the book. Not to warn them off from a purchase.
   
   3) Was it my fault for not remembering or knowing that Delany's
      sf writing has a gay slant?

If I do not like the style of a particular author, I do not buy more of 
their books.

   4) Do I have a point in objecting to the way the book club advertised
      the book?

The book club probably just printed what the publisher put out on the book,
so I would not suggest getting mad at the book club. They are trying to 
peddle books, not censor then for their readers. Look to the 700 Club
for services like these. If you thought you ordered a cookbook and got the
joy of gay sex instead, then you problably ought to check to see what you
ordered, then complain like any other unsatisfied customer.

   5) Was the book such a work of creative genious that it transcended
      such considerations?

Do you mean that since this book is 'great' that it should not be censored?
Please define 'great' or 'work of creative genious'. 

All of your questions are issues in the shades of grey and trying to appease
everyone is going to be hard. Blatant misrepresentation of a product is
fraud; being uphappy with the limited description of the contents is not.
If they told you in the review who done it, why buy the book?


			Cal Thixton

		{ucbvax,decvax,decwrl,ihnp4}!sun!{,texsun!}tj
		{ut-sally,convex,smu}!texsun!tj
