God, Gays, & Gospel
rooter@well.UUCP (Brian Mavrogeorge)
09/21/85
Tried to append this to the article asking about opinions about
religion but couldn't figure it out. Sorry.
  It is not surprising that gays and lesbians are sour on religion
having been either directly murdered in its names or having had
their oppression "justified" by it.  I would submit though that
times are a changing.  Have always felt that altho gays and lesbians
were estranged from the church that they maintained a wellspring of
religion within themselves.  After all it was not their problem that
needed to be resolved it was the churches.  I have limited experience
with those groups now working within their own denominations for change
since I left my family's church (MEthodist( years ago and joined one
of the local Metropolitan Community Churches quite some time ago.  In
San Francisco there is an abundance of religious feeling among gay and
lesbians with many synagogues, churches, denominationa "interest" groups
etc.  And that situation is not unique to SF.  There are hundreds of
MCCs around the world.
   My thoughts about religion and Christianity specifically since that is
where I come from are that a belief takes work.  One must be willing to
go the extra mile and get behind the preaching and demagoguery to the
source writings.  You must study what it is you profess to believe and
make up your own mind about your faith.  Don't let anyone else define
it for you.  In the final analysis, your status is between you and your
God.  Regardless of other people's labels, definitions, and rules, your
relationship with God is a very personal direct one.  Be an informed
Christian (or whatever you profess) and conduct yourself in accordance
with what you believe those tenets to be after study and reflection.
I was sour on religion also for a long time.  But sour on the organization
not sour on Christianity.  There is a difference.
   Off my soapbox.  

-----------------------------------------------------------------

