Getin' Satisfaction
arndt@squirt.DEC
11/12/85
This posting is prompted by a number of personal messages received and by
some comments on the net (motss and elsewhere) about homosexuality, etc.

Owen Rowley says on net.flame that I have 'terrorized' net.motss and sends
me mail (thanks Owen - I mean that) suggesting I protest too much and should
let myself slide down that slippery slope to degradation at the bottem of
which all you guys await me.  Or words (sorry Owen it really was a nice
letter) to that effect.  

A net lolly pop writes me a private mail to the effect the I am a chauvinist
(me???  why I LOVE women - think they're ALL equal) and asks why I think
it is important for a man to have a woman to love, "above all others on 
earth" (quoting me).  And says I should be proud of homosexuals for choosing
the superior sex, blah, blah.

Other confused souls have written me from time to time asking 'where I'm
coming from' so to speak.  

Wellllllll.  (That sound is thousands of 'n' keys!)

Let's start with masturbation.  (Ain't that where we all start?)  I mean that
seriously.  The 'self' starts with itself and moves outward seeking fulfillment.
The free self uncovers the ideal and the involved self struggles to give it
substance.  Tension builds between the ideal assented to and the outworking
of that ideal in day to day living.  Remember Ray's "Can we have honest love
affairs?" in motss??  The ideal being in this case 'honest love affairs' as
opposed to what happens often in live itself.  In masturbation the self must
supply other imaginary selves in seeking a sense of fulfillment with meaning.
That is if the ideal about sex assented to involves more than just a very basic
physical release from body sexual tension not involving contact with another
self.  I know I'll have a protest from Rich Rosen but it seems to me that
masturbation falls short of what sex is about, eh?

Well, I feel the same way about homosexuality as I do about masturbation.  It
falls short of what sex is all about.  To the extent that the homosexuals make
it my business by touting an 'alternative lifestyle' with 'rights' I oppose
what I view as their lack of understanding of what sex is all about.  I think
that they are actually anti-sex!!!!  Self destructive sexual behavior is what
they are actually doing.  I feel sorry for them for their loss of sexuality
and while they themselves are not really funny their pretensions to being
an expression of human sexuality that has fulfillment for either a man or
a woman IS funny.  They can never have anything more than two members of the
same sex masturbating each other - just another pair of hands!  That ole 
biological problem for the man of WHERE do you put it, and for the woman
WHAT do you put in it?  Or are we just left with fanning it?

I see an analogy here between homosexual pretensions to human sexual fulfullment
and someone who insists on forcing food up his rectum and trying to vomit it
out.  We ain't MADE that way!!  AND FOR ME TO SAY SO IS 'HATE', ETC, ETC.
Sure.

Now I don't propose to see that everyone wears big mittens to bed or that
sodomy laws be strictly enforced in private lives.  But when, as I say, the
case is put forward that it's just another way of sexual expression so it
should be presented as such in schools, etc. I draw the line.  It IS a
perversion of what being a sexual human being is about.  It may feel good,
be fun, etc. but it ain't sexual fulfullment any way you cut it.  To say
it is is to move into comedy.  

And then there's AIDS.  Human sexual activity, homosexual or heterosexual,
that insists that the lower bowel is a sexual organ thereby creates the
vector for many diseases.  AIDS = anal intercourse of course.  That's why
it hits homosexuals most in this country - and heterosexuals in third world
countries.  Safe sex indeed.  How about REAL sex children???

Well, having said all that let me say that I don't hate homosexuals.  They
are people just like me.  Some no doubt are better people than me.  Many I
would be glad to have as friends.  That doesn't mean I have to assent to
their beliefs, does it????  I have Democrats for friends, Catholics, and
even some who use Unix. Why not homosexuals. Let me ask YOU why YOU protest
so much against what I've said????  Eh?

I could go on as to why I think one certain woman is the ideal but this is
too long already.  Put it away and read it again later.

Keep chargin'

Ken Arndt

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncc5.UUCP (Steve Dyer)
11/12/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

up547413042@ucdavis.UUCP (0048)
11/16/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

