Lambda as a gay sign.
allen@osu-eddie.UUCP (John Allen)
11/14/85
 
In <1466@hound.UUCP> P. Hanson says
>
> Also; lesbians may put "lambda" bumper stickers on their cars...
> is there any gay equivalent? (e.g. a "gamma" bumper sticker)
> 

    The lambda is used for both gays and lesbians.  Below is an article that
explains why the lambda was chosen. (reprinted without permission)


                          A HISTORY OF THE LAMBDA

    Lambda, the eleventh lower case of the Greek alphabet, is the forerunner
of our letter L.  Originally, the letter was a picture symbol for the scales
often seen being carried by the figure of justice.  With the passage of time
the lambda bore less of a visual resemblance to a scales and its meaning
became more abstract in that it came to represent the concept or qualities
of balance.  The Greeks believed that balance was a reconciliation between
two opposites and as such was not a stable state but one needing continuous
adjustment.  Finally, due to the influence of Greek philosophy, the lambda
emerged as it appears in modern day form.  The small hook was added in the
base of the letter to indicate (1) that some form of action was necessary to
bring about a state of equilibrium and (2) that constant action was
necessary to maintain that state once it had been achieved.
    The ancient Spartans adopted the lambda as a symbol of their unity.
Worn as a symbol on their shields, it signified the special balance which
they felt must exist between an individual and the state.  They believed
that the demands of society should never interfere with each person's right
to be totally free and independent.  They also thought that each individual
must be bound to society only by individual choice and desire.  But, each
Spartan recognized that only in a common bond could they hope to preserve
their existence as a free and equal people.  As Rome rose to power and
conquered the known world, the Romans borrowed many things of value from the
Greek culture.  Among these was the lambda.  Owing to the fact that the
Romans saw the overall shape of the lambda as suggestive of a flare, it was
used as the symbol for "lampas"--their latin word for torch.  In our day,
scientists seeking a symbol for the wavelength of light (to set up an
equation) drew on the historical past, and the lambda, because of its
connection with the torch, was chosen.  In the sixties, when the quest for
gay liberation began to emerge as an organized movement after the famous
Stonewall riots, the lambda was selected as a gay symbol because of its
historical associations.  Previously symbolizing justice, balance and the
reconciliation of opposites, unity and the relationship of man and his
society, freedom, equality and the independence of the individual and
light-- the lambda had those qualities which best represented the objectives
of gay people.  As acceptance of the lambda became more widespread and its
popularity grew, use of the symbol spread rapidly across the United States.
    Courtesy of Micheux & Co. and the Ohio Gay Rights Coalition.


                                        John Allen
					Ohio State University
					(UUCP: cbosgd!osu-eddie!allen)
					(CSNet: allen@ohio-state)
