Nonoxynol-9
rusty@sdcarl.UUCP (rusty c. wright)
04/10/85
Does anybody know if there is a spermicidal lubricant that uses
Nonoxynol-9 that is flavored?  I've been using Conceptrol.  It's fine
for a lubricant but I also use it after I blow someone; I squeeze a big
blob of it into my mouth and swish it around and then swallow it. The
problem is that the stuff tastes AWFUL!  I was wondering if someone
makes a strawberry (for example) flavored Nonoxynol-9 based lubricant
(foam would be ok too).  Sperm flavored would be tops.  I've also
wondered about the possible side effects of ingesting Nonoxynol-9
(especially considering how much I've got sloshing around in me
sometimes).

I saw an ad in the local gay newspaper for a Nonoxynol-9 based
lubricant called ``Paint Job''. It's brown and smells really bad. Just
the thing to get rid of a trick that turns out to be a lot less
attractive when you get him home and get a good look at him in good
light (or even worse: he has a small dick).
-- 
	rusty c. wright
	{ucbvax,ihnp4,akgua,hplabs,sdcsvax}!sdcarl!rusty

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbnccv.UUCP (Steve Dyer)
04/11/85
I think Rusty should give the "Colonel" a call so they can entertain each
other with their frat-house jokes.

On a more serious note, is anyone else as appalled as I am about the
recent promotion of nonoxynol-9-containing lubricants/spermicides as
actually PREVENTING AIDS?  Even a supposedly well-meaning person like
Bruce Voeller, a fairly well-known gay activist, is promoting this stuff
through an organization known as the "Mariposa Foundation."

It is a very very far cry from noting that nonoxynol-9 inactivates
HTLV-3 virus in vitro to recommending it as a prophylactic measure
during sex.  We simply DON'T KNOW what kind of effect it may have
on the spread of AIDS--it might as easily facilitate its spread through
some bizarre surface-active effect on mucous membranes.  People who use
an agent like this as an excuse to return to dangerous sex practices
are being deceived in the worst way, and it seems to me that the Mariposa
Foundation and other promoters of nonoxynol-9 should be on hand to sign
the death certificates if any should contract AIDS.
-- 
/Steve Dyer
{decvax,linus,ima,ihnp4}!bbncca!sdyer
sdyer@bbnccv.ARPA

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rob@ptsfa.UUCP (Rob Bernardo)
04/12/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

werner@aecom.UUCP (Craig Werner)
04/16/85
Caveat: Nonoxynol-9 inhibits the replication of HTLV-3 in Vitro.

3 things:
1.  Inhibit the replication of is not the same as killing. The virus
	could still conceivably be passed and later wreak havoc.
2.  In-vitro and in-vivo are two different things, and with something like
	AIDS, self-experimentation is a bad idea.
3.  The stuff itself is Cytotoxic.  It itself is not exactly healthful.

Steve Dyer's point cannot be overstressed. There is no proof that the stuff
will prevent AIDS - none.


-- 
				Craig Werner
				!philabs!aecom!werner
		What do you expect?  Watermelons are out of season!

-----------------------------------------------------------------

wild@sun.uucp (Will Doherty)
12/04/85
SPERMICIDES CONTAINING NONOXYNOL-9


[Source: Clark L. Taylor, Ph.D., Ed.D.
	 Institute for the Advanced Study of Human Sexuality,
	 San Francisco, CA, 415-928-1133
	 Call them for a copy of their report
		"Condom Use, AIDS Prevention, and Increased
			Sexual Enjoyment"
	 If you live in the San Francisco area, call for
		a reservation to one of their workshops on
		"Eroticizing Safe Sex" (Excellent!)

 Another good source is the SF AIDS Foundation Hotline,
	 800-FOR-AIDS]

Nonoxynol-9 is a mild detergent used in spermicides and various
other "feminine hygiene" products to prevent pregnancy and V.D.
It works by bursting the outer protein cap of sperm and various
disease organisms.  In laboratory tests, this detergent quickly
and effectively kills herpes, gonorrhea, syphilis, CMV, yeast,
trichomonas, and amoebas.  Most recently, it also has been found
to kill AIDS virus easily in the test tube.  This is promising
news, however nonoxynol-9 is considerably more effective under
laboratory conditions than in actual sexual use because:

a.) The inert ingredients in spermicides -- foams, gels, and
creams -- do not always spread evenly or form a sufficient
chemical barrier for nonoxynol-9 to kill pathogens before they can
reach uninfected tissue.

b.) People often use spermicides incorrectly and only when they
"think" a partner is infected.

c.) People abandon condoms instead of using nonoxynol-9 and
condoms together.

It is very tempting to use nonoxynol-9 as a layer of prevention
against AIDS while engaging in oral sex and anal intercourse.
But make sure spermicides don't irritate your skin, your mouth,
or your rectum.  When in doubt, check with your doctor.  And to
be sure the doctor's really up  on the subject, be well informed
yourself.  (See "Reading Up On Condoms and Spermicides.")

Studies show that:

1. Nonoxynol-9 has had a very good safety record for 35 years and
has been used by Gays in spermicides and a couple of lubricants
for anal intercourse over the last 7 years without any reports of
problems.  A preliminary study by Bruce Voeller, Ph.D indicates that
the intestines of 50 spermicide anal users were healthy.  Animal
research which studied nonoxynol-9 excretion through the intestines
also showed no abnormalities.  However, spermicides have only been
tested for safe human use on the skin or in the vagina.  The FDA
noted in 1980 that spermicides are regularly swollowed during
oral sex.  Because of their extremely low toxicity and because
nonoxynol-9 is used as a wetting agent in foods, the FDA deemed
spermicides safe when eaten in small quantities.

2. Spermicides provide very important protection from common STD
transmission if used properly and every time a person has
intercourse (remember, the testing on spermicides and AIDS s
incomplete).  However, the effectiveness drops quickly from 90%+
to 70% or less effectiveness when not used exactly as instructed
on the label.

3. Spermicides and condoms used together and correctly result in
much greater disease prevention than either technique alone.

4. At this point not enough is known about the effect of nonoxynol-9
on human intestines (especially during sex) or about AIDS virus to
recommend spermicides totally without reservation for anal sex OR
to recommend strongly against them!  But they are certainly
recommended for vaginal intercourse as a layer of AIDS prevention
(provided a person is not allergic to them -- remember that
changing brands usually takes care of this problem).
