AIDS: beyond high-risk groups
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
09/13/85
NPR's "All Things Considered" yesterday described a report from the AMA
(American Medical Association) which claimed there were 1 1/2 million
Americans NOT IN ANY HIGH RISK GROUPS (which are gay men, intravenous
drug users, & hemophiliacs) either infected with HTLV-III virus or
testing positive on the bloodtest for it.

The report urged those testing positive to have a second bloodtest,
because of the high number of false positives, and even a third test 
of another kind, before drawing any conclusions about themselves.

There were a lot of other interesting recommendations in the report
and in reaction to it.  Does anyone have a copy of it or the reaction?
If so, how about posting a summary to the net?

					Regards,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

slb@drutx.UUCP (Sue Brezden)
09/14/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

wws@ukma.UUCP (Bill Stoll)
09/15/85
The revelation that >9,500,000 Americans, who are not on the origional
list of the only kind of people who can get AIDS, is a giant step
toward the truth.  You can't get AIDS unless your immune system is
near collapse.  These people were exposed to the virus and their
resistance was sufficient to either kill off the virus or create the
carrier state.  PRECISELY AS THE AMERICAN HOLISTIC MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
HAS BEEN SAYING ALL ALONG!  The "incubation period" is just the
carrier state intil the individual's reserves finally got low enough
for him or her to finally yield to the virus--it has nothing to do
with an incubation period in the usual sense of the word.  In this
sense it is like Herpes [which also, by the way, doesn't attack people
with an unburdened immune system]--it stays in the system until
something lowers the immunity enough for it to break out again.  If
the Herpes virus attacked the immune system (like the AIDS virus does)
instead of the skin, it would be just as bad as AIDS.
  
Unfortunately, many more people will have to get the disease; lots
more hysterical things will have to occur; before people have suffered
enough to be willing to look at the situation in a very different way.
It has always amazed me how painful thinking seems to be for the human
animal:  it will do almost anything, suffer almost any agony or
disaster before, finally (as a last resort) thoughtful shift in
perception is tried.

There are more ways , to improve the immune system, being learned
every week.  The thinking human is NOT helpless before AIDS.  As I 
stated a few weeks ago (the position for which I was blasted from all
sides):  Anyone who does aerobic exercise 20 minutes 3 times/week,
practices a whole food diet & switches their hypothalamus to 8-10cps
20 minutes twice daily, has nothing to fear from AIDS, Toxic Shock,
Legioniare's Disease (did you know one couldn't get Legionaire's
Disease unless they were, or had been, a smoker?)[another example of
specific stresses exceeding reserves within the individual], Chronic
Systemic Candidiasis, etc.

There have been several recorded cases of AIDS already that have gone
into remission (possibly to cure--too soon to know yet) simply by
following what I have reported to you above.  There is still no
conventional treatment that has any significant positive results.
What harm is there to try?  There can not possibly be any harm &, even
common sense says it should help.  Why so much resistance?  Any one
who has done their homework knows about the laboratory findings in
this area.  I believe it is hard because no one really wants to change
their lifestyle.  Besides, if you have AIDS, changing would be an
admission that something that you did, in your lifestyle before you
got it, helped you get it.  That is a pretty heavy burden for anyone
to swallow, especially if one is already pretty sick.

The truth will eventually out, regardless what we would LIKE it to be.
There may be some fine detail things to learn about what the Holistic
understanding has been for some time---but it will follow exactly the
present outline I've been sharing with you.

My thanks to Ron Ringo for placing the information on the net.  Also
to Sue Brezden for her contribution.

cbosgd!ukma!wws(Walt Stoll)                           YOU

Walt Stoll, MD, ABFP                               ARE   MORE
Founder & Medical Director
Holistic Medical Centre                         THAN  YOU  THINK
1412 North Broadway
Lexington, Kentucky  40505    


-- 

cbosgd!ukma!wws(Walt Stoll)                       YOU

Walt Stoll, MD, ABFP
Founder & Medical Director                     ARE   MORE
Holistic Medical Centre 
1412 North Broadway
Lexington, Kentucky  40505                  THAN  YOU  THINK
(606) 233-4273

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncc5.UUCP (Steve Dyer)
09/18/85
There is nothing wrong with following the practices Walt recommends.  As he
says, it can't hurt and may be helpful.  The only reservation is for those
who follow his logic to its ultimate conclusion: that by following such
"common-sense" prescriptions, one need not fear exposure to the virus, and
hence drop other precautions.  For some gay men, this means once again
indulging in frequent, promiscuous sex practices which involve the exchange
of fluids which may contain the virus.  This is imprudent, to say the
least, but by Walt's theory, it is just fine.  This is the only reason he
is being "blasted", for he is confidently predicting the outcome of
exposure to a virus about which still little is known experimentally.
One wonders what he'd say to a formerly "healthy" athlete who is now
dying of KS.

The trouble is, one cannot predict the state of one's immune system
directly from diet and exercise and alpha brainwaves.  There is no evidence
that such behaviors provide absolute protection against any kind of
infectious disease, despite his confident assurances.  He is dealing in
black and white when all of us are little real numbers along some still
poorly characterized line of susceptibility.  There is only one black and
white fact on which we'll both agree: don't come into contact with the
virus (exposure to blood, semen and serus products) and you'll never have
to worry about AIDS.
-- 
/Steve Dyer
{harvard,seismo}!bbnccv!bbncc5!sdyer
sdyer@bbncc5.ARPA

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sher@rochester.UUCP (David Sher)
09/21/85
(message was not found)
