To Mr. Ken Arndt
tara@devel.DEC
10/08/85
Ken! Ken! Ken! I've been in this man's army for almost 40 years now and have
rarely seen as bad a case of battle fatigue as yours. You know something, here
at the 4077 th we get cases like yours every day. There's not much else we can
do with them except to send them back to the states to become Cobol programmers
or firmware debuggers. It's too bad you never were brought to the 4077 th Mash
unit where Dr Sidney could straighten (no pun) out your deluded mind. You could
share a tent with Hawkeye and B.J., two highly qualified doctors and just reg-
ular guys. Of course they are practical jokers and love raising a little Cane
with folks like you; nothing setious, maybe a rattler in your bed or bouncing
betty mine in the latrine, but nonetheless good soldiers. Then there's Radar,
a good boy but a closet case. Now there's Major Frank Burns. I always suspected
that he was gay myself since he was always sneaking off base to a gay bar in
Seoul but he's tell Margaret he was just off harassing the homo's. Since Mar-
garet was a leslian she couls see through Frank. Why do you think that none
of her marriages worked out. Frank keopt slipping in her tent trying to prove
what a man he was. The poor boy just wouldn't fess up to what he was. You see
ken, I'm a real live and let live kind of man, I don't think that you really 
are! Yes! Yes I was at the party in Brighton. I took 2 weeks leave to visit
the net.motss folks. You and your friend Mayhem would have been bored. Why
horsefeathers, I was there and none of'em paid any heed to me. I'm afraid
that yo and your friend would have left mumbling, dese fags is no fun". You
know Ken attitude can kill as easilly as guns. These gay boys can use att-
itude like you boys use Uzi submachine guns. Well, just a little fatherly
advice from an old soldier. Lay off son, go home to your wife and family,
they need you more than the fighting Fire Island 101 st Batallion does, any-
way you wouldn't look very good in lavender fatigues.

Colonel Sherman T. Potter

Mash 4077 th
