Posted at a Friend's Request - One of his articles
levasseur@morgan.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin  223-5027)
11/27/85
    A net.motss penpal that I met a year ago has been quite nice in that he
has taken the time and effort to fully format just about every Jason article
I've posted into manuscript form. I've met this person last Spring while he
was in Boston on business. 
    He would rather remain anonymous since he is not as looudmouthed as I am
about declaring my sexuality and has asked me to post an article he wrote un-
der the pseudonym of Dionysus. I read the article and think that it's pretty
good, therefore I'm posting it at his request.

                                  Regards, Ray (aka) Jason


----------------------- cut here --------- cut here -----------------------


Page 1                                  Auntie Dion Chatters

                  Auntie Dion Chatters On

Well, everybody has heard or seen Jasons witty discourses on
Life  and  other  useless topics.  Auntie Dion tries to fill
the breach, what Jason doesn't cover Dion tries.  Of course,
there  might  be good reason why Jason didn't but that won't
stop our Auntie.  So, enjoy the  Compleat  Gay  Advisor  and
Encylopaedia.



                         Chapter 1
                         Hustlers,
                             or
                   Take the money and run

     During your life you will  meet  up  with  a  class  of
people  called  "hustlers".   Yes, I know that the Gay slang
calls a male prostitue a "hustler" and  I  include  many  of
those  in  my  classification,  but  I  consider a hustler a
broader group and distinct from the  User/Loser  that  Jason
talks about.  But they are related and overlap.

     Let me tell you about one.  I had an ad  in  the  local
bar  rag.   "Danny" answered.  He lived near and was lonely.
After a couple of dates it was clear that he was an  aimless
soul.   Later,  it turned out that Danny and his family were
at odds. He moved in with me and Lee as a house  boy  for  a
while.   We'd  give  him  room  and  board  in  exchange for
cleaning house and cooking, etc.  It  was  made  very  clear
that he had to pay for his own booze and cigarettes.

     Well, things went on okay for about a week.   Then  Lee
discovered  a  couple of packs of cigarettes missing.  And I
discovered half of my trove of pennies gone.  Then  Lee  was
missing  his loose change.  Over the 4th of July we left the
house in Danny's care.  When we got back we  found  much  of
the booze gone and other small disturbing things.

     For various reasons, Lee never  got  around  to  giving
Danny  hell for filching the cigarettes, and then eventually
Danny split.  We were aware that he  might  be  leaving  and



Auntie Dion Chatters                                  Page 2


were not too broken up about it. But one day he wasn't there
when we got home from work.

     After an inventory of the house and several days  later
we  discovered  that we were missing: a back pack, a Stetson
hat and some clothes,  some  jewlery  and  part  of  a  coin
collection stored in the basement.  Later we got a call from
a "boy" asking if we needed a house-boy.

     Danny wasn't a "real" hustler [prostitute]  but  close,
he  had  had sex with us and we suspected he hung around the
right neighborhood, but we don't think he actually was. Lest
you think we were unjustly accusing Danny, note that he left
a bag of clothes behind but last week when  Lee  as  in  the
Nutbush,  when Danny saw Lee, Danny vanished in record time.
You'd think he would ask for his clothes.

     For the information of all  you  good  natured  people,
Auntie  Dion  has  the following thoughts to help you should
you meet this particular species of baracuda.

   o Keep  your  valuables  locked-up.   Better   yet   keep
     anything important in a safety deposit box.  In hustler
     circles it is common to go home with some one and while
     you  are busy (in the bathroom or shower) to rifle your
     dresser.  Don't keep valuable jewlery  in  or  on  your
     dresser.   Watch  your  checkbook; a common thing is to
     steal a check or two from the middle of  the  book  (or
     several out of an unused checkbook).

   o Know your tricks:  Their name, where they live and what
     they  do.   You  need to know enough to come after them
     should something be missing.

   o Hide your important things before  the  fun  and  games
     start. Wallet, house and car keys, even watch.  This is
     especially important if you are a heavy sleeper and you
     and  s/he  plan  to  sleep  afterwards.  Make sure your
     doors have dead bolt locks that lock with  a  key  from
     the  inside.   When  with a trick, lock it and hide the
     key.  Then he can't leave without your knowlege.   [One
     man  saved  his  life  that  way.  The hustler couldn't
     escape.]

   o If you are going to his place make  sure  you  remember
     how  you got there, especially if you take his car.  It
     might be a bad trip if afterwards he kicks you out  and
     makes  you  walk.   If  your  are  in  doubt  and  your
     hornyness won't wait make sure some one knows where you
     went.  [Read Jason on Fagbashers].



Page 3                                  Auntie Dion Chatters


   o Know your tricks:   If  someone  strange  is  involved,
     check  him  out  first.   It  is  a good idea to become
     friends with an old-timer in each bar you  frequent  so
     you  can  get  the dirt on people. Lee was saved from a
     bad night because a local he knew could tell the dirt.

   o Watch out for repeats.  There are  many  stories  about
     people  getting ripped-off or killed by a hustler after
     several times together.

In additon to the more criminal  behavior  there  are  other
things to watch for.

   - The person who is always asking you to pick them up and
     drive them.

   - They always seem to be broke and want you to buy them a
     drink (or loan them a pack of cigarettes).

   - If they are sharing rooms, they borrow your clothes.

   - They want to borrow money.  Maybe large sums.

Now what has the "hustler" have to do  with  Jason's  Losers
and  also  the  male prostitute.  [Thought you'd never ask].
They are basically the same personality.  Most  people  have
heard  of  the "Gold-digger".  These sort of people have the
idea that  someone  else  will  solve  their  problems.  The
prostitute  has  reduced  this  to  a monetary science.  The
Loser has so many problems  he  can't.   The  hustler  still
isn't  ready  to sell his body for money, but he isn't above
taking advantage of people.  Not all hustlers  are  theives.
Some are con artists and some are just free-loaders.

     I have noted that the most of those I call hustlers are
either  quite  hot  looking or have a good, pleasing, almost
ingratiating personality.  They can persuade you to do  more
than you ought and ofter more than you might otherwise.  The
problem, of course, isn't limited to the Gay world -- female
bimbos  abound.   The trouble with Gays is that the emphasis
on superficial beauty starts the young  and  beautiful  into
thinking  that because they are so hot looking they can have
what  they  want.   Then  they  find  that  people  are   so
enraptured with them they can get away with anything.

     The last type of Hustler is the most dangerous and  the
hardest  to  defend against.  They come on to you. They seem
to want to be your <whatever>.  Then they move in and things
go well.  But, they really are just biding their time.  Soon
they will take the money and run.  Remember  the  guidelines
above:



Auntie Dion Chatters                                  Page 4


   o Keep all personal as well as valuable items locked  and
     preferably  out  of  the  house.   An ex-lover actually
     would break open my strong box to see what was  in  it.
     Others snooped in my bank records.

   o Don't let people know your financial affairs.  How much
     you make, your bank accounts, credit card numbers, etc.
     [This helps them know how much to ask for  or  wheedle.
     It also gives them grist for gossip.]

   o Keep your credit cards locked up.  One of Lee's  lovers
     filched  the  cards  and  ran  up  several thousands of
     dollars of bills before Lee found out.

   o Make sure that all and sundry know that you will go  to
     the  cops  if  bad  things  happen.  Then do so.  [Good
     reason for being out to people].   Remember  that  many
     hustlers  get  away  with  things  because no one takes
     action.

   o And if the person does ANYTHING bad take  action.   One
     person's  bad  experiences started because he allowed a
     boy to get away with forging a small check.

   o Also remember that the hustler has no shame.   He  will
     deny  that  he  did it.  Or, worse yet, confess and ask
     forgiveness.  (This depends on how sure he is that  you
     know and can prove it).

I suppose that the parasites will always be  with  us.   The
key  is  to  recognize  that  and develop techniques to live
amongst them.  We all need to learn to say no and  to  sense
when things are not quite right.

     Then why do people get into  trouble  or  get  involved
with hustlers?  First, these people really take advantage of
their sexuality and their looks!  Some people are so hard up
for  <  affection,  sex,  what you will > that it is easy to
lull their suspicions and  take  advantage  of  them.   Some
hustlers  are so agressive and suave they fast talk you into
things.  Most people are nice  and  good-natured  and  don't
like to say no.  Gays are even more afraid of rejection than
straights.  Thus, any friendly person is  to  be  treasured.
Better  a  neurotic  queen  than nobody.  Better a User than
nobody.

     Then  of  course  are  those  who  have  an  optimistic
outlook.  Like  Candide, some people still think that people
are decent and honest.  Some are,  some  aren't.   And  some
think  they  are smarter and clever than the hustler and are
willing to take the chance.



Page 5                                  Auntie Dion Chatters


     The real  problem  is  those  people  who  tend  to  be
attracted  towards  the hustler either as a personality type
or as a sexual image.  We all know them or of  them  --  the
chicken  hawk,  the  auntie who likes the rough trade. There
isn't much that will help those  people.  It's like the moth
and  the  candle.  They have to be realistic about the risks
and act to minimize them.  And, hopefully  they  will  learn
and become more cautious.

     But what about the rest of us?  Be careful.   Lock  the
doors and watch out.

--
Dionysus
