Bisexuality: Coming Out Twice
pickens@sdcsla.UUCP (Karen Pickens)
08/27/85
*****
(I wrote this article for the December 1984 issue of "Sappho Speaks;
 The Lesbian and Gay Quarterly Journal at UCSD")

		Bisexuality: Coming Out Twice

     If you met me at work, chances are you would think  I'm
straight. If you met me at a bar, you might think I'm a les-
bian.  In both cases, you would be mistaken.
     Yes, I am an often misunderstood person; I'm  bisexual.
False  assumptions  by friends, co-workers and acquaintances
are just some of my problems.  Another is that frequently  I
am rejected by gays and straights alike.  Also, there is the
problem of satisfying my needs while  still  being  fair  to
those close to me.
     I have an open but serious relationship with a man.   I
have  a  difficult  time letting people know I am polygamous
and it is REALLY okay with my boyfriend.  I find it next  to
impossible to explain to people that my boyfriend and I both
sleep with other women.
     People do understand my situation  eventually,  through
observation and stumbling conversations -- "Oh, yeah, Larry,
he's my um, boyfriend," said at a meeting of  lesbians,  or,
to  one  of  our  straight  friends, "What did I do Saturday
night? Well, I went dancing. Where? At a lesbian  bar.  Yes,
Larry knows...he was there..."
     Upon learning I am bisexual, some people assume I  must
be  promiscuous.   I  have  heard  bisexuals  referred to as
``people who will sleep with anyone they meet''.
     Being bisexual does not mean having sex with  everyone,
just  as  being  gay  or lesbian does not mean sleeping with
everyone of the same sex, and being straight does  not  mean
sleeping  with  everyone  of the opposite sex.  I am choosey
about my lovers.  I just have twice as many people to choose
among.
     I realize gays have a similar  problem  convincing  the
straight  world  they  are  not all promiscuous. I am disap-
pointed to find that some lesbians and  gay  men  generalize
about  bisexuals,  even  though they complain when straights
generalize about them.
     Rejection is another problem faced  by  most  lesbians,
gay  men  and bisexuals.  There is almost no workplace, com-
munity or school that does not  have  some  people  who  are
violently against homosexuality.  Gays and lesbians can find
acceptance within their own community, however.
     Bisexuals are not completely  welcomed  by  either  the
straight  or gay communities.  Straights see us as homosexu-
als; gays see us as indecisive, cowardly gays  or  straights
who are just experimenting.  Some straights think, "Well, if
she can enjoy sex with men, why doesn't she  take  the  easy
route and give up women?"
     In      ``Lesbian      Nation''      Jill      Johnston
states,``Bisexuality  is  not so much a cop-out as a fearful
compromise.  Many women pride themselves on their  bisexual-
ity,  claiming  they happily have it both ways. But one half
of those both ways is a continued service to the  oppressor,
whose energies are thus reinforced to perpetuate the oppres-
sion of that part of  the  woman  who  would  make  it  with
another woman.'' Later she goes on, ``Bisexuality is staying
safe by claiming allegiance to heterosexuality.''
     Jill Johnston is an extreme example of a lesbian femin-
ist,  and  the  above  was written over a decade ago, in the
early 1970's.  Most of my friends are not this extreme.  But
I  have gotten the feeling from some of them that they think
I am copping out by continuing to  have  relationships  with
men.   Other friends think it's okay for people to be bisex-
ual or straight, but they don't want to include such  people
in their inner social circle.
     Rather than establishing separate societies  for  every
imaginable type of person, I would rather we learn to accept
differences in each other.  It hurts  me  to  feel  excluded
from  the  lives  of  lesbians  because  they feel I have it
easier than they do.  I disagree -- I still have to come out
to my friends.  I have the added tension of coming out to my
gay friends as bisexual.  I have to  deal  with  homophobes,
just  as they do.  I don't hide behind my bisexuality -- the
struggle for gay rights is important to me.  I find  it  sad
that  gays,  who  have  been discriminated against for their
sexuality, can do the same to bisexuals.
     There is a gray area between the subject of bisexuality
and  the  subject  of monogamy versus polygamy.  I have said
that I do not consider myself promiscuous, yet to satisfy my
desire  for men and my desire for women in the same universe
requires something beyond one steady relationship.   When  I
had  monogamous  relationships  with men, I still felt some-
thing missing from my life.
     This is where I  have  the  problem  of  satisfying  my
needs,  while being fair to my lovers.  I have to explain to
potential lovers that they can never be the "one  and  only"
for me.  This does not mean that I don't care about them.
     Many potential lovers of both sexes are put off  by  my
refusal  to  tie  myself down to one person.  In order to be
fair, though, I feel I must explain before getting involved.
     Even with all these difficulties, I do not regret being
bisexual.   My  experiences  have  taught  me a lot.  I have
learned that there are rotten men and nice men; bitchy women
and  wonderful women. I have met straights who are extremely
open-minded, and gays who are bigots,  as  well  as  bigoted
straights  and  open-minded  gays.   Most of all, I have had
wonderful relationships with *people* -- regardless of their
gender.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

pickens@sdcsla.UUCP (Karen Pickens)
08/27/85
Karen Pickens			Institute for Cognitive Science
(USA+619-)452-2088		UC San Diego (mailcode C-015) [x2088]
ARPA: <pickens@nprdc.ARPA>	La Jolla, CA  92093  U.S.A.
UUCP: {ucbvax,sdcrdcf,decvax,ihnp4}!sdcsvax!sdcsla!pickens 
		OR ulysses!sdcsla!pickens
