What are our legal rights?
mason@pneuma.DEC (ANDREA--223-4864--PK03-2/31)
09/12/85
If you were in an accident, would your lover/significant other be allowed 
to care for you?

It's an awful thing to think about, but a reality in our society.  For 
those of us who are not "legally married," our s'others can effectively be 
prevented from making decisions about our care, treatment, financial 
matters, and may even be barred from visiting us in the hospital. 

Many of us probably thought that if we had legal papers drawn up, called
"power of attorney," that these problems wouldn't happen.  Well, here's the
truth folks: REGARDLESS of how you try to protect yourself and your
s'other, you may still have to fight for your rights, and you may loose. 

A case in point is the story of Karen Thompson and her lover Sharon 
Kowalski who are in need of your help right now.  I am summerizing the 
following information from the Gay Community News and Sojourner:

Sharon was in a car accident which left her brain damaged and quadriplegic 
almost 2 years ago.  Karen and Sharon were long time lovers, had bought a 
house together, and each had power of attoney for the other.  Sharon's 
father refused to believe that his daughter is a lesbian, and challenged
the power of attorney in court.  He won, and prevented Karen from even
visiting her lover.  Eventually the father moved Sharon half-way across the
state (of Minnesota) and placed her in a nursing home which does not have
any rehabilitation facilities for young people (this was a specific
violation of the court decision to give control of Sharon to her father). 

Recently Karen has been granted access once again, but Sharon's father is 
fighting it in court.  Thus far they have been to court 3 times, and more 
legal battles will, no doubt, follow.

The lesson which we can learn from this is that we are still regarded as
second class citizens. We do not have the law on our side even if we have
all the right legal papers, in short:  the rules can bend or be broken when
it comes to dealing with gay people. 

It is certainly important to know your legal rights, and I encourage people 
to learn more about them, and at least try to prevent things like this from 
happening to them and s'others by drawing up wills and powers of attorney. 
If Sharon and Karen hadn't at least done that, Karen would have absolutely
no chance of even getting into court.  A good book, written by two gay
lawyers (sorry, don't remember their names) is called _Legal Contracts for
Gay and Lesbian Couples_.  It's about $12.95 in paperback, and has lots of
good information and samples of contracts for most situations. 

The other point I wanted to make is that these women need our help.  
My s'other and I have contributed to a fund (tax deductible, by the
way) which was set up to help Karen pay her legal expenses.  If you want to
contribute, please send whatever you can to:  Minnesota Gay and Lesbian
Legal Assistance, or Minnesota Society for Personal Liberites c/o Suzanne
Born, 3436 Holmes Ave., Minneapolis, MN 55408.  Please pass this
information on to other people who might not have access to the net. 

You can also send letters and cards of support to Sharon at the nursing
home:  Sharon Kowalski, Leisure Hills Nursing Home, 1500 East Third Ave.,
Hibbing, MN 55746. 


****andrea mason****

UUCP: decwrl!dec-rhea!dec-pneuma!mason
ARPA: mason%pneuma.DEC@decwrl.ARPA

-----------------------------------------------------------------

jcp@osiris.UUCP (Jody Patilla)
09/14/85
(message was not found)
