New kid on the block
rooter@well.UUCP (Brian Mavrogeorge)
08/14/85
Thought I would take a minute to introduce myself.  Have been using
a system in Sausalito CA and was excited to recently learn of newsnet
and the net.motss section.  Too bad the previous poster didnt suggest
some new topics after decrying what was here.  I skipped the AIDS 
articles.  Living in San Francisco we are pretty well taken care of
on the AIDS front in terms of progress in discovering causes and cures.
I was very interested in the articles on Massachusetts and child care
having gone through the adoption process here in San Francisco as an 
openly gay couple.  In case readers didn't know, there have been 
gay and lesbian couples in San Francisco who have adopted children.  And
there is an active support group for those parents.  But that doesn't
mean its easy street.  The foster care section in San Francisco still
drags their feet.  For them it isn't so much a gay or lesbian issue as
much as it is every social worker wants to hold on to the kids hoping
that next week there will be that "ideal" couple that will present
themselves and the child can be placed with them.  As well all know those
"ideal" couples exists only in glossy pages consequently the kids remain
in foster homes while the social workers play out their games.
  An issue that hasn't been broached here so far and which Iam interested
in is the gay/lesbian religious scene.  Iam particularly interested in
those who choose to remain in their particular denomination and work from
within for change as I opted not to do that and am active in an MCC
congregation.  Contrary to what some people see, I see a resurgence in
religious activity and feeling across the whole spectrum of religious
life.  Admittedly I probably have a biased view.  ANd what I find even of
more interest is that altho the mainline denominations have done a good
job of dumping on gays and lesbians, many of us retain our spirituality.
  Another topic I find of interest is the question of monogamy and its
applicability to gay people.  I rememeber a few years back reading in a
newspaper an editorial stating that being gay meant being freed from all
those sexual hangups and stereotypes of our parents - that the idea of
marriage was no longer relevant.  Well I personally have been in a 
monogamous relationship for 20+ years and just like my parents celebrated
that relationship with a religious ceremony so the editorial didn't ring
true to me.  But since then I have read a couple of studies pre-AIDS and
post-AIDS that seem to indicate that the gay relationship is quite
different from the heterosexual one and that the question of sexual
fidelity is also quite different.  Perhaps that is due more to the sexes
involved as I would suspect sexual fidelity for lesbians is close to the
heterosexual model.  I don't know.  Would be interested in comments.
  Having been out for many many years to family, work, etc. 
I have strong feelings about the Rock Hudson affair - revolving around the
opportunities he had to break the gay stereotype for middle America.
Opportunities he missed.
  So in conclusion - Im very glad to have found all of you and hope to
have some interesting times here.  In regards to the Boston/California 
split, perhaps its because UNIX is bicoastal and has no real following 
in the hinterlands... :-)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

davet@oakhill.UUCP (Dave Trissel)
08/16/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

hxe@rayssd.UUCP (Heather Emanuel)
08/18/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rooter@well.UUCP (Brian Mavrogeorge)
08/21/85
About 7 years ago we began attending the San Francisco Metropolitan
Community Church.  The minister and his lover had adopted a baby boy.
The adoption had been private - the mother was a lesbian who knew the
adoptive parents and it was all handled through attorneys.  That started
my spouse and I thinking about the possibility of having children.  Both
of us come from large families - 6 children in my family and 10 in his
and we both have strong "family" feelings.  About a year later the
minister and other gays and lesbians who had children appeared on a local
tv program and that convinced us that we would start the process and see
what happened.
  So I went to the City Social Services Department and started the application
process for adoption.  In the written parts of the application it appeared
as if I was a single man but during the interviews with the social worker
it became apparent that they were looking for two parent adoptions.  It was
made abundantly clear that two parent applicants had better chances at a
successful adoption than singles.  At that point I told the social worker
that indeed it was a 2 parent application and in my viewpoint the unit had
exactly the strengths he was looking for.  I also invited him to our Holy
Union (wedding) in a few weeks.  The process also includes a series of
meetings with other prospective adoptive parents covering the whole range
of child raising issues.  We joined a group consisting of 5 heterosexual
couples, two single women (neither a lesbian), and us.  It was an interesting
experience for all concerned.  Over the span of the meetings we found the
social agency and the classmates to be extremely supportive and one meeting
was spent exploring the issue of gay adoptive parents.
  The cruel reality of life was however, that all those people were matched
with children at the end of the classes and we were not.  Another group was
formed and all those people were matched but we were not.  At that point
our classmates organized a letter writing campaign and demanded a meeting
with the Director of Social Services.  Concurrently with that another gay
people had applied for adoption.  One of the people was experienced with
nursing and the other worked in a child care center.  While they could
hesitate on our "qualifications" the other couple's were impeccable.  As
luck would have it, that couple was matched with a child who has now been
officially adopted by them.
   After that adoption the agency cooled on our application and no other
gay couples were in the pipeline so to speak.  The agency's adoption staff
went through a 100% turnover.  Two years went by with us being on an emotional
rollercoast -- will they call this week?  maybe next week?.  We completed
all the forms and were certified as foster parents also.  We waited.  We
hoped.  After 2 1/2 years a social worker called to see if we were still
interested because he had noticed our file and it was pretty old.  (We had
gotten lost in the shuffle, he said.  Homophobia, I thought).  A week later
he called to see if were interested in adopting a fetal-alcohol syndrome
child.  No firms offer - just wanted to know if there was interest.  My
spouse and I talked it over and decided that we didn't believe the worker
and it was time to climb down off the roller coaster.  So we told him
no.  We never heard again.
  Summary - we didn't personally get a child but were able to be support
people for another gay couple as they went through the process.  Our
initial contact spurred the agency to have some internal training on
sexual minorities and training, we helped at least 5 couples work through
some gay bias.  It still hurts not succeeding.  I kid my spouse every
once in a while about reaching 40 with a barren womb.  Sometimes its
a remark with a hollow ring.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

ped@mtuxo.UUCP (p.davidson)
08/22/85
REFERENCES:  <133@well.UUCP>, <977@rayssd.UUCP>

	I too would be interested in hearing about any homosexual
attempts or successs at adoption. I tried once.
