Bisexuality anyone?
psh@hound.UUCP (P.HANSON)
08/16/85
In response to the call for input from read-only participants I would
like to submit a topic for discussion...bisexuality.

I think  this is an interesting topic for several reasons. 
Homosexuality has, over the past few years, gained a recognized
place in todays society. Homosexuals now have respected and well
formed communities, they have faught for their civil rights and
all this had led to partial social acceptance. This acceptance by the
outside and the supportiveness generated on the inside of the gay
world has done much to create the opportunity for gays and lesbians
to live happy and loving lives. However; it is difficult to say that the
same opportunity exists for bisexual people.

As one author has written, the bisexual is at the disadvantage of both
homosexuals and heterosexuals, in terms of acceptance, because
bisexuals are "enemies in both camps".

It used to be the case that psychology only considered bisexuality
as a transitory state between hetero- and homosexuality. Now, many
psychologists don't believe that crap. And now with the Kinsey Report
(I believe) it is thought that there may be many more bisexuals than
homosexuals [I don't think one is required to be active with both
sexes in order to fall into the range of 'bisexual', the determinant
is one's preferences]

So, where are they all? Bisexuality is interesting because there are
now two closets to hide in i.e. one can be openly gay or straight and
yet sneak on over to  the other side. There is good reason for one
to do this. We now have admittedly gay politicians and public servants
but could you imagine an admittedly bisexual one? 

Clearly a  major difficulty is facing the desire for marriage and children...
I mean if one is bisexual, one could choose to live a straight life
and not act on same-sex desires and thus gain the fulfilment that
comes from family life. But, it is a trade off. Is being bisexual never
to be happy? To satisfy both sexual preferences nearly eliminates the
possibility of a monogamous relationship. And to have a monogamous
relationship implies a sort of celebacy. Or does it?

Let's hear from some representatives of the gay and straight community
on what they think today's sentiments towards bi's are. Also, it
would be interesting to hear from bisexuals about their personal
difficulties in starting and maintaining relationships.

Are there any married bisexuals out there?

-----------------------------------------------------------------

manis@ubc-cs.UUCP (Vince Manis)
08/16/85
I recently was talking to a man who claimed to be very happily married, yet
wanted some kind of gay sexual experience. As we talked, I became quite
convinced of two things: 1) that he was indeed happily married,  wanted to
do nothing to jeopardise that marriage, and judged gay sex to be very
threatening to his marriage, and 2) that he considered his same-sex
inclinations to be less strong than his opposite-sex ones. Yet he still felt
that he was gay. After a lengthy discussion, I suggested the ''If it ain't
broke, don't fix it'' philosophy, and he very dubiously agreed. I suggested
that he contact me from time to time, but I've never seen him since.

I don't know what to make of bisexuality, myself. Apart from the normal
bisexuality that all of us experience, professed bisexuality seems to be
something very different. I have often heard bisexuality used as a
justification for a series of inconclusive relationships (yes, I know that's
a cliche, but...). It must, however, be fairly difficult for someone to make
a serious commitment to another person if s/he assumes that his/her sexual
makeup requires continuing experiences with other people. (Yes, that makes
me a closed relationship bigot, but these *are* the eighties, you know :-)

On the other hand, do we want to draw lines so finely? After a long period
of being on the outside looking in, the last thing I want to do to someone
else is to marginalise her/him.  I was recently reading (in The Body
Politic) of the political squabbles at the Greater London Gay Community
Centre. Apparently, there was a strong sentiment that S/M people and
bisexuals, among others, not be allowed the use of the Centre. It was with
some embarrassment that about 1/4 of the Centre's staff confessed to being
bisexual. 

At the risk of flogging a dead horse, let me suggest yet another reason why
we should prefer ''gay'' to ''homosexual''. I have known gay bisexuals,
non-gay bisexuals, and (strangest of the lot) non-gay homosexuals. It all
has to do with how you identify yourself, not whom you sleep with.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncc5.UUCP (Steve Dyer)
08/18/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

stone@masscomp.UUCP (Jonathan Stone)
08/20/85
Indeed yes, there are a number of married bisexuals out there.  I know of
quite a few, and am one myself (as is my wife).  Until now, I have been
one of the read-onlies referred to, primarily due to the prejudice
described in the previous article.  Much as those with both black and white
ancestry have in past places of racial hatred been termed "black"
as they were perceived to be "tainted", so too have I been seen as a 
"faggot" by homophobes.  Yet, I've also been perceived as straight
(and worse) by a great many gays and lesbians.   Surely, you must 
all be aware of examples of this strange brand of hatred.
	Even the previous article contained what I consider to be mis-
conceptions.  I don't see myself as "missing out" on anything, else I
would never have chosen monogamy (after entering into a life-long
monogamous heterosexual relationship, "marriage" seemed useful from a
legal point of view.  The associated philosophy is a different issue.)
I feel no more of a loss for having made a commitment to my wife on the
grounds that she is not a male, than I do that she is not a blond.
Despite the perceptions of some, I am not hiding from anything.  I have
simply fallen in love with a women, and I know full well that had she
been born male (or I female) the only difference (presuming our
personalties unchanged) would have been in the perceptions of others.
	I could easily blather on for pages, but while I might feel
somewhat purged, I am uncertain as to whether any would be interested.
I will close with a comment on language and such.
	My mother told me that regardless of my beliefs, since I was
born and raised a Jew I would be perceived by others as a Jew.   She
was referring of course to circumstances of prejudice, but since
bigotry still flurishes I feel her point to be well taken.  I call
myself a Jew because I identify with the culture in which I was raised
even though I do not share many of the beliefs which I consider
fundamental to Jewdaism.  Similarly, though my sex life is heterosexual
I percieve myself as gay.  By the way, I would be legitamately
interested in any arguments as to why I should not (there is no
"chip-on-the-shoulder" here, I'm looking for opinions and ideas.)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdp@ucsbcsl.UUCP ( )
08/22/85
The reactions I've seen in other members of the gay community to bisexuals
has got be the single most puzzling thing I've learned about since I came
out.  The most striking example I've heard of is from our local "Speaker's
Bureau".  Volunteers speak at events ranging from Rotary Club meetings, to
high school sex/family life classes, describing a little of what it is like
to be gay in this society.  One of the guidelines they use is that no
bisexuals are allowed to be on the panels.

This reasoning reflects the attitude "a bisexual is a gay person who hasn't
been willing or able to come completely out of the closet".  I don't feel
that way.  It seems to me that the bisexuals ought to be considered 
a natural ally of the gay rights movement.  And I absolutely cannot stomach
such sweeping generalizations about other people's mental health!

I don't see me sexuality as being a strictly black-and-white proposition,
any more than the rest of my personality.  


The Demented Daemon,

Steve Parker
{sdcsvax,ucbvax}!ucsbcsl!sdp

-----------------------------------------------------------------

flaps@utcs.UUCP (Alan J Rosenthal)
08/30/85
Well, I suppose that I would be called bisexual.  I try to adopt a relatively
calm attitude and decide whether or not I'm interested in a particular
person, not whether I want to be straight or be gay.
I don't think that being monogamous means that you have decided to be gay
or straight, just like if straight people decide to be monogamous, they are
not saying that they are no longer physically interested in anyone else, they
are just saying that they are not going to do anything with them at this
particular time.  Like, if I decide to be monogamous with some man, for
example, I am not saying to him that I am no longer interested in any women,
any more than I am saying to him that I am no longer interested in any men.
Does this make sense?  It sounds perfectly clear to me...

-----------------------------------------------------------------

