NH foster care developments
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
09/10/85
Here's more news about the foster care controversy in New Hampshire:
an article by Sharon Vardatira from the 8/31-97/85 GCN, pages 1 & 3,
quoted without permission.



N.H. FOSTER POLICY BARS `PRACTICING HOMOSEXUALS'


Concord, NH -- The New Hampshire Division for Children and Youth Services
has issued a foster care licensing policy directive to social workers
which explicitly excludes placement of foster children with "practicing
homosexuals."  The June 28 directive, which has not yet been publicly
released, emphasizes the division's intent to place children with
"relatives, or in families with married couples, preferably with
parenting experience."  The directive goes on to instruct social workers
to take the following steps once they "become aware that a foster parent
is a practicing homosexual:

	a. make no further placements in the home;
	b. do not re-issue or renew a license;
	c. assess the risk of harm to any child(ren) currently placed in
	   the home;
	d. if immediate harm to a child currently placed in the home
	   exists, remove the child, based on the immediate harm;
	e. if no immediate harm to a child currently placed in the home
	   exists, consider the best interest of the child in conjunction
	   with good social work practice and the standard removal and
	   replacement procedures."

	The division's directive was issued without approval of the
attorney general's office just weeks after the UNION LEADER [a Manchester
daily newspaper with an ultraconservative bent] printed an article naming
Thomas Herman, "a known homosexual," as a foster parent.  (See GCN, Vol.
13, No. 2)  Both the attorney general's office and the New Hampshire
Civil Liberties Union (NHCLU) have raised questions about the legality
of the division directive.  because the division did not follow the state
Administrative Procedures Act, which includes a public hearing, they are
in violation of state statutes.

	Jon Meyer, attorney for the NHCLU, attacked the content as well
as the legality of the directive as "discriminatory and in violation of
the right to equal protection.  It singles out one segment of the popu-
lation and prohibits them from being foster parents.  The state's `privi-
lege, not a right' argument is not sufficient to enact a directive which
discriminates against one segment of the population."  

	Lorri Platt of the attorney general's office claimed that the
office had not seen the directive as of August 16.  However, a meeting
between that office and the divison was held August 21, and a proper
procedure for adopting the directive is expected to result.  The NHCLU
intends to testify against the policy when the public hearing is scheduled.
In addition, they will consider challenging the legality of the rule should
it closely resemble the June 28 directive.  "It is clear," Meyer said,
"that the division should have enacted the Administrative Procedures Act
from the beginning.  Now they are only looking for a rationale for a rule
they have already adopted."  [ Net lawyers & jurists: even if the rule is
approved once APA procedures have been satisfied, can all effects of the
rule's application before such approval be overturned? ]

	Linda Kent, Director of Youth Services, Inc., of Keene, the
private licensing agency involved with Thomas Herman, indicated that the
division directive is being followed despite its questionable legality.
She added that the local agencies are required to follow any mandate 
that the state issues [ true? If so, is a non-APA-enacted directive a 
"mandate" ? ], and that "it would not be in the children's best interest
for an agency to bring themselves notoriety by challenging the state."
Kent had earlier told GCN that lesbian/gay placements are appropriate for
some children, "especially when the parents are upfront about their sexu-
ality and can provide a solid home environent."  Thomas Herman received a
letter in mid-July revoking his license to operate a foster care facility.

	Gail DeGoosh, foster care specialist with the division, admitted
that the policy was not legally binding.  Though no one has challenged the
directive, she indicated that "if anyone did, the division would probably
lose."  The division intends to form a committee comprised of former
foster parents [including gay ones?], agency staff, and members of the
Action Committee for Foster Parents, a subdivision of Child and Family
Services of Manchester [Why conservative Manchester?  Concord's the
state capital, Nashua & Portsmouth are also cities], to draft the formal
policy.  DeGoosh could not estimate when the committee would propose the
"new" policy and did not see any need to revoke the current directive in
the meantime.

	In a related development, Sullivan County (NH) Representative
Mildred Ingram has filed a Legislative Services Request (LSR), indicating
her intent to submit a bill this legislative session entitled an "Act
Prohibiting Homosexuals from Adopting or Operating Foster Care Homes."
The content of the bill is not yet available, but must be submitted by
October.  Jan Schaffer, lobbyist for the New Hampshire Women's Lobby,
acknowledged that the success of the bill will depend on the support of
other well-respected legislators.  With such support, Schaffer feels 
that the bill may be "one of the most dangerous pieces of legislation
this session and one of the most difficult to defeat."

	Last spring, a bill sponsored by Ingram which would have made
the donation of blood by lesbians and gay men a felony was defeated
(See GCN, Vol. 12, No. 30.)

	A citizens' rights organization is now forming to respond to
lesbian and gay legislative issues, specifically Ingram's proposed
legislation.  The first meeting of the group, which may also address
the foster policy directive, will be in Concord on September 12 [Wed-
nesday this week], 6:30 p.m.  [For a phone number to call for information
about the meeting, see the 8/31-9/7/85 issue of GCN, page 3]


			*********************


Netters who belong to NH gay organizations:  what's happening to fight
these threats?  Conservative Republican governor John Sununu is popular
and has even garnered occasional praise from Democrats and liberals (eg,
the Boston Globe).  He's also a professor of civil engineering at Tufts
University in Medford, MA.  What's his position, role if any, likelihood
of opposing the policy and legislation described above?  

New Hampshirite netters, gay Republicans, Tufts students & graduates,
parents, & other interested parties:  how about writing letters to NH
officials & legislators?


					Regards,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

