Definitive expose' of Sandinistas?
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
08/12/85
**************************
PSEUDO-SANDINISM UNMASKED?
**************************

John Silber, controversial president of Boston University & a member
of the President's National Bipartisan Commission on Central America
(the Kissinger Commission), wrote the following review of Shirley
Christian's NICARAGUA: REVOLUTION IN THE FAMILY, a brand-new study of
revolutionary Nicaragua, and possibly the definitive expose' of Sandi-
nista tyranny and deceit that's been lacking for so long.  

Is Silber's review accurate?  Is Christian's critique valid?  Get a
copy of the book and read it!  I am.  I'll post synopses when I finish
reading it.

I'm cross-posting to net.religion because of information about "libe-
ration theology" & Sandinist manipulation/persecution of religion, &
to net.motss, because many lesbian & gay activists have expressed
support for the regime, believing it was different from Cuba's.

Greater Boston residents:  Wordsworth's in Harvard Square, Cambridge,
carries the book, probably at its usual discount.

					Better well-read than Red,
					Ron Rizzo



[ Reprinted in its entirety from Boston Sunday Globe, 8/11/85, pp. A10-11
without permission. ]


DEMYTHOLOGIZING THE SANDINISTAS
===============================


NICARAGUA
Revolution in the Family
By Shirley Christian. Random House.
337 pp. $19.95.


By John R. Silber


	It would have been useful if, through some time warp, the 
members of the Kissinger Commission had had Shirley Christian's "Nica-
ragua: Revolution in the Family" as we sat in Managua listening to 
Nicaragua's foreign minister, Father Miguel D'Escoto, blame the United 
States for the sins of the Sandinistas.  He was lying, and we told him so.  
But Christian's book would have made the refutation definitive and public:  
She cuts through mendacity and obfuscation with a powerful combination of 
thorough research, eyewitness experience and reportorial savvy.

	Christian shows that the history of our involvement in Nicaragua
is not a subject for endless breast-beating but for honest appraisal.  
She reminds us that William Walker, the freebooter who took over the 
country just before the Civil War, was opposed by major US business 
interests and by our government, which refused to receive his ambassador.  
She thoroughly demythologizes Augusto Cesar Sandino, whom the Sandinistas
use to give Marxism-Leninism a Nicaraguan accent, pointing out his stubborn
and vociferous anticommunism.  Sandino despised communism for its inter-
nationalism, a prescient attitude, considering Nicaragua's present status
as a pawn of the Soviet Union and Cuba.

	She also shows that the early presence of the United States was 
not mere imperialism, but an attempt to stabilize the country in response 
to a genuine threat of foreign influence.  Sandino himself, refusing to 
lay down his arms because his liberal party was not guaranteed a suffi-
cient share of power, twice offered to come to terms if the US Marines
would remain in Nicaragua and run it until elections were conducted.

	By contrast, Christian writes, "The leaders of the Sandinista 
Front intended to establish a Leninist system from the moment they 
marched into Managua."  She clearly shows that long before the revo-
lution, the Sandinistas were Marxist-Leninist in thought and action. 
She details the deceits and opportunism by which they alternately
flaunted and obscured their intentions.  Anyone who thinks a Marxist-
Leninist regime can be trusted or who finds it hard to conceive of
ostensibly "progressive" rulers committed to deceit, rigid ideology
and the ruthless exploitation of others, should read this book.

	Christian limns superbly the attitudes and personalities of 
the players, and the locales and ambiance in which they appear.  She 
has been told or has witnessed some very interesting stories.  Reading
her book, one hears clearly the voices of genuine democracy: an earnest,
wounded Arturo Cruz, analyzing his mistaken support of the Sandinistas;
the dignity, courage and sorrow of Violeta Chamorro; the spunk and 
intelligence of the market women who continue to defy Sandinista 
harassment and brutality; or Adolfo Calero telling Somoza, whom he 
opposed, that he had better change fast, because  "You're going to
lose your best friends, the gringos.  They are going to try and get 
your ass."

A "liberation" church service

	Christian strikingly juxtaposes the hollow rhetoric of Marxist
adventurers such as the Sandinista secret police chief, Tomas Borge,
with the genuine concern of religious leaders and human-rights activists
forced out of the country.  Her protrait of a "liberation" church
service at which, for an audience of foreign visitors, various members
of "the people" perform like trained seals, is devastating.  So is her
account of a Sandinista "intellectual seminar" in which participants
explain to each other what Sandino "would have said" if he had only
understood Marxism.

	Christian's book is less instructive about the future.  There
has been and will be a continuing effort by the Soviet Union and Cuba
to influence the course of events in our hemisphere.  This played an
important role in the Nicaraguan revolution and in US perception of
it.  Internal politics (the "family" referred to in Christian's sub-
title) played a major role in bringing about the revolution.  But the
revolution's consequences will be determined not by the family, but
by the Soviet Union and Cuba, by conditions in Nicaragua and by the
United States.

	Christian correctly says that the revolution against Somoza
was not a phenomenon of class struggle.  She goes into some detail
on the frustrations of the Sandinistas as they tried to stir up
peasants and agitate the working class.  "One of the first priorities
of the Sandinistas," Eden Pastora recently told one of my associates
with tongue in cheek, "is to turn peasants and farmers into proleta-
rians.  They will do this," he added more seriously, "by starving
them."  The 1979 uprising succeeded because the press, the middle
class and organized labor in Nicaragua deserted Somoza.  They were
subsequently used as dupes and front men by the Sandinistas, whose
years of Leninist study finally paid off.

Carter administration faulted

	On the issue of US intervention, Christian rightly faults
the Carter administration for trying to have it both ways.  When
President Carter appeared before the Kssinger Commission, we asked
him why he had denied support to the democratic forces after the
revolution.  His answer was that this would have been intervention.
He was justly proud, however, of his withdrawal of support for Somoza
- an intervention as consequential as that he rejected.

	Christian concludes that "The Sandinista Front would have
become a footnote to history had a moderate regime been able to
assume power in Nicaragua before the end of 1978.  But the Carter
Administration could not make the decision to do what was necessary
to bring this about."  Our failure proved tragic for the Nicaraguan
people:  With Somoza stripped of US support, and the democratic
forces weaponless, the triumph of the Marxist-Leninists was inevi-
table.

	Although she does mention the Sandinistas' New York public
relations firm, Christian plays down a subject on which she has been
eloquent elsewhere:  the role played by the media in romanticizing
the Sandinistas.  In a 1982 article on the Washington Jounalism
Review, she demonstrated the extent to whic the press had been 
responsible for sweetening the image of the Sandinistas.  Neither 
the Carter Administration nor the Reagan Administration was under any
such illusions, but some members of Congress were.  And congressional
vacillation was a reflection of congressional and public misperception
of the Sandinistas.

	The words Christian applied in 1982 to the US media apply
equally well to the public and the Congress:  "Intrigued by the
decline and fall of Anastasio Somoza, they could not see the coming
of Tomas Borge."

-----------------------------------------------------------------

tonyw@ubvax.UUCP (Tony Wuersch)
08/14/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
08/16/85
Let's continue this discussion in net.politics.  I know, it's my
fault it's in net.motss.  I'll just make a couple of points here.

Tony should read the book, not browse.  He seems to have seen
only what he wanted to.  It's simply false that:

	1 The book is only a series of interviews.  Christian
	  has covered & witnessed events in Central America for
          years & read most of the available documents and other
	  literature.  She's won a Pulitzer & another prize as a
	  a Central American correspondent.  What other possible
	  sources of information are there --- direction revelation
	  from the Party?

	2 The book only shows Americans, not Nicaraguans, were
	  deceived (I find this claim particularly bizarre).
	  Christian clearly documents Sandinista deceit and
	  manipulation of NICARAGUAN politicians, interest
	  groups, labor, the church, etc.  Eg, during the 70s
	  they promised their goal was political pluralism &
	  democracy and toleration of private enterprise.  They
	  told this to moderate & conservative allies; to heads
	  of state in Costa Rica, Venezuela (who armed the Sandi-
	  nistas at crucial moments); assorted foreign sympathi-
	  sers around the world; Eden Pastora (who was a non-
	  Marxist Christian), etc.  It's clear from Christian's
	  narrative of events that belief in these promises
	  was crucial for the assorted support that made possible
	  the success of the 1979 revolution & of the Sandinistas.
	  Without it, the FSLN would've remained a small (200 or
	  fewer members) Marxist-Leninist guerilla band.  Tony,
	  you'd better learn more about Nicaragua & Nicaraguans.

BTW, Tony, are you admitting that the FSLN is/has always been
Marxist-Leninist?

I've read enough pro-Sandinist apologies by North Americans to be
familiar with their arguments.  Defenses usually consist of denying
the junta is strictly Marxist-Leninist, & blaming the US for its
excesses.  It's interesting Tony's abandoned that approach in order
to be able to criticize Christian's book.

But thanks for taking the book seriously, even if your purpose in
reviewing (browsing?) it was to find an easy handle by which you
could dismiss it.


					Better well-read than Red,
					Ron Rizzo

"U.S. out of my pants!"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

lkk@teddy.UUCP
08/30/85
Here is a rebuttal to Shirley Christian's book (taken from another
network):
-lk



-------------------

Date: Mon, 19 Aug 85 08:14:15 PDT
From: upstill%ucbdegas@Berkeley (Steve Upstill)
Subject: Nicaragua, ctd.

    Here is a partial reply to the book review JoSH posted.  I may be
confused, though, JoSH.  Perhaps you posted the original review as
commentary, rather than as a pointer to an important book.  I will
respond soon to the substance of that review, but for now I would just
point out that the Kissinger Commission and the previous,
well-opinionated reviewer, spent a matter of hours (6?) in Nicaragua
on their "fact-finding" tour.

    "A Contra's-eye View of Nicaragua", by Dan Bellm
    San Francisco Chronicle, Sunday, August 18, 1985.
    reprinted without permission
-----
    Nicaragua's Sandinista government, now six years old, is deeply mired in a 
war waged on its borders by counterrevolutionaries, or Contras.  The Contras'
dependence on U.S. dollars and CIA coordination, and the danger that the war
may escalate, make it urgent that we learn what has been happening in Nicaragua
and why.  We could use a well-researched study of Nicaragua's past history and
its six-year revolution, a book motivated by a desire for truth rather than
political loyalty, either to the Sandinistas or to their armed opponents.
    "Nicaragua: Revolutioon in the Family", by Shirley Christian, a foreign
affairs reporter for The New York Times, is not that book.  Although the
jacket notes promise "an insider's experience" and "an objective reporter's
analysis," Christian's bias emerges soon.  The central characters in her
Nicaragua are landowners and urban business leaders, a privileged minority
who hoped the overthrow of the dictator Somoza in 1979  would involve little
more than a change of leaders.  Since several of these people -- Adolfo Calero,
Alfonso Robelo and Arturo Cruz -- now lead the Contras, Christian's book reads
like a publicity drive on their behalf.  
    This campaign involves considerable rewriting of history.  Since the
Contras include many of Somoza's former National Guardsmen -- a bothersome
"image question", Christian admits -- she is careful to downplay the brutality
of the Guard and of the Somoza family itself.  This is her summary of the
record: "The government bureaucracy and National Guard interfered little in
the lives of most Nicaraguans.  As authoritarian regimes go, this one ceded to
its political enemies and critics a relatively large amount of space to act in
public life." Elsewhere: "What mattered most to Anastasio Somoza Garcia was
amassing and enjoying wealth, and Nicaraguans generally allowed him to do
that."  Was there a choice?
    What's wrong with this picture of Nicaragua is that most of the people are
missing: the rural landless poor who had everything to gain from a sweeping
change and almost nothing to lose.  Decades of Somoza rule left Nicaraguan
peasants hungry, underemployed, illiterate and prone to early death from
disease, yet their voices -- what they hope for or fear, what they now think
of the country's changes -- are entirely absent here. (Christian encourages the
view that Nicaragua was ruled merely by an annoying autocrat, that nothing was
wrong fundamentally with its distribution of political power, land and food.
    "Nicaragua" develops the thesis that during the late 1970s, when a broad
opposition movement favored Somoza's overthrow, a vacillating Carter
administration failed to produce a moderate replacement and allowed a small,
nearly irrelevant clique of Leninists -- the Sandinista Front -- to seize
control.  Since 1979, the argument runs, the Sandinistas have built the
totalitarian state they envisioned from the start, without regard for political
or economic pluralism, religious freedom or other human rights.
    Christian gathers useful information on the Sandinistas' mistakes, and
there have been plenty -- notably their censorship of the opposition newspaper
La Prensa and their relations with the Miskito Indians -- but one needn't be a
Sandinista to notice an imbalance.  Christian failed to interview any
Sandinista supporters in order to gather their views of the 1978-79
insurrection or of developments since then.  She nearly ignores the social
reforms that have led most Nicaraaguans to favor the revolution:  the 1980
Literacy Crusade that taught over a million people to read, the proliferation
of health centers and schools in even the remotest rural areas, the elimination
of polio.
    Christian's book is weakest on current developments.  Her sympathy for the
Contras forces her to whitewash their awful record of destroying what are
primarily civilian targets, well-documented by Americas Watch and other
international human rights observers.  Most critically, Christian sidesteps the
question of whether the U.S. has an obligation, or even a right, to intervene
in another country's political disputes -- especially after Nicaragua's
November, 1984 election, which she is unable to discredit.  Nor does she
consider seriously the Contadora process, a major diplomatic effort by Mexico,
Colombia, Venezuela and Panama to end the war.
    "Nicaragua, Revolution in the Family" may be a useful reference on the
motivations of the Contra leadership, but its distortions make it otherwise
unreliable.


 
-- 

Sport Death,
Larry Kolodney
(USENET) ...decvax!genrad!teddy!lkk
(INTERNET) lkk@mit-mc.arpa
