I can't believe I'm responding to Ken Arndt
levasseur@morgan.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin  223-5027)
08/05/85
In response to the below named party

>Path: decwrl!dec-rhea!dec-lymph!arndt
 
>causes Hep B.  Glad to see a few of you here and in the larger media saying
>things like "swinging" from flower to flower can be dangerous to your health.
>Even Ray now thinks twice about playing the whore (his Calif. trip report -
>it was Ray, wasn't it?) although lately it seems he attributes it to a sense
>of maturity about his relationships.  Ole Dr. Tim Johnson (a local star and

    EVEN RAY! Let me clear the air Ken. I have thought twice about playing the
whore for years before AIDS became a household word. I've always been health
consious as a lot of gay men I know. There is that faction who indulge in X
to the Nth power of sexual partners. It's no different on the heterosexual
side of the tracks. I've always believed that a vast multitude od sexual part-
ners cheapens a person. When I first acted on my sexuality (15 years ago) I
had a lot of sexual partners but the novelty wore off very fast. Monogamy, not
seriogamy; one after another, after another. There are many other gay men who
feel the same way.

>person should stay away from sperm (beware the sperm of strangers!) since
>it has happened that several women have contracted the virus through
>art sem programs.  Soon it will be a crime to stay in the stall of a public
>washroom for more than three minutes.
 
   There are just as many het women who engage in oral sex with their het
partners as gays. Since semen contains many forms of flora and fauna (virus)
straight women who swallow semen on a regular basis also run a high risk.

>pay and pay for it?  But you see the problem is not just AIDS.  It's a
>whole raft of diseases that come in the door (dare I say the back door)
>from homosexual sexual practices.  How much do you have to take before
>it becomes clear that 'nature' doesn't allow that the rectum is a sexual
>organ?  I then ask what are you left with?  The bend of elbows or knees??
>And of course the other, ha ha.  The statement that certain homosexual
>practices are 'unnatural' doesn't look so far out now, does it?
 
    Anal sex between straight men and women is almost as popular as bet-
ween gays they just don't talk as openly about it. I've known quite a few
straight couple who found this more popular than the more acceptable
missionary position; used for birth control reasons. Ken, shall we elect
you "Minister of Morals"? In that case you'll be arresting as many straights
as gays.

>Ahhhhh, there I've gone and done it again.  Trying to make you feel bad.
>Sigh.  If only I were the cause, the solution would be so simple.  If you
>asked, I'd really go away.
 
    You don't make me feel bad at all. As my dear ol Dad used to say "con-
sider the source". 

>I'd like to hear a homosexual on the net discuss the pros and cons of what
>I've said about homosexual sexual practices in light of recent (and future)
>events.  Already my long ago (on the net) suggestion of questioning the

    I'de like to hear a heterosexual discuss the pros and cons of some of
their sexual practices. Ken, why don't you take a brief hiatus from net.motss
and take your soapbox over to net.singles. I'm sure your message would be
warmly recieved.

>Hope they soon come up with a cure, I felt really bad about Rock Hudson.
>What a waste of a human being.  But if the disease is 'epidemic' because
>of homosexual sexual practices doesn't that make YOU responsible for
>the suffering and deaths within and without the homosexual community??

    I also hope that a cure is found soon. Let he is without sin cast the
first stone! You make it sound like we did this. I'll bet if some horrible
deadly sexually transmitted disease started in the het community that you'de
be singing a different tune. It's very easy to point fingers when something
bad seems to start in a minority community; see they did it!

>Remember, I still lov ya even if I think you're wrong.  When are we (in the
>Boston area) gettin' together??  
 
    When the Ku Klux Klan hold their next ralley in Boston.

Ray
