The PLeasures of Meeting Other Net.motss
levasseur@morgan.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin  223-5027)
09/05/85
    A week ago Friday I had the pleasant opportunity to have dinner with
Ron Rizzo. When I first joined the net he was one of my most staunch opp-
onents to the early Jason postings but since then we've started exchanging
mail messages and finally got together. I have to admit that my original 
opinion of him was a raging politico but now I realize that I misjudged
him from his postings.
    He knew what I looked like but I hadn't the foggiest idea of what he
looked like. We arranged to meet at Fritz (local South End neighborhood
gay pub). While waiting a horrendously handsome man at the bar was beckon-
ing upstairs to his room "Egad! get thee behind me Satan!" Well Ron came
inand saved me from a fate worse than ecstacy! What followed was a very
enjoyable evening for me. We had dinner at a quiet restaurant where I learn-
ed that Ron is a multifaceted person and quite interesting. Our conversation
over dinner must have been interesting since there was a guy at the next
table who's ear was almost in my salad plate. We returned to Fritz to chat
the evening away. 
    This also ties in with Bob DeBenedictus's invitation to a net.motss
party. Some may figure "Why the hell, why bother". I for one have marked it
on my calendar. In some ways getting to meet all the other pixel personnas
in the area can help strengthen and solidify the net. It might even get
some folks who just read to join in and share their ideas and feelings.
   On DEC's Engineering Network we have a nifty little utility called Notes.
Notes is something like an electronic bulletin board and the subjects run
in similar ranges to the USENET newsgroups. The DEC E-Net does not carry
a motss file. Once every few months the noters get together for a noter's
party. This gives the readers and posters a chance to get acquainted face
to face. These parties have been among the best I've ever attended and have
given me the chance to make new friends, something we all need. I guess I
concur with Bob D's proposal and would make a further one based on the
success of the upcoming party. It would be fun to get together periodicly
as we do on the DECnet. It's also a great way to blow away the stereo-
typical images that some of us may have about each other, like the guy I
met one night who upon meeting me had a mental picture of the face behind
Jason being a pretty blond boy in his early 20's......geeeze! I should be
so lucky :-):-) Look forward to meeting some of you on the 27th.....and
Ron keep in touch, let's get together soon...twas fun.

                             Ray (aka) Jason (aka) hey you wanna come up
                             to my room :-)
