Politics of Gender and Sexuality course
wild@sun.uucp (Will Doherty)
08/19/85
I am proposing to teach a course entitled "Politics of Gender
and Sexuality" this fall at Stanford University, in Palo Alto, CA.
I am looking for suggestions of possible readings, films, and
speakers.  If you have any ideas, please send them asap because
the term will start soon.  Here is the preliminary course
description:

"Politics of Gender and Sexuality" outlines the history of cultural
definitions of gender and sexuality and provides the student with
a background for study of contemporary attitudes toward various
sexual practices and gender orientations.

Concentrating especially on gender and sexual identifications
stigmatized by societies of various eras, the course encourages
the student to develop a comprehensive analysis of formation 
and evolution of morality regarding gender and sexual orientation.

Using a topical approach, we study individuals and groups of people
who demonstrate a variety of gender and sexual identifications in
order to understand the minority point of view on cultural definitions
that apply to them.  We trace gender and sexual minority organization
within societal institutions, so that we can evaluate movements for
social change based on sexual variation, and reaction of the
mainstream culture.

Sexual and gender minorities highlighted for study will include:
bisexuals, lesbians, gays, transexuals, transvestites, fetishists,
prostitutes, and people engaged in interracial, intergenerational, and
S/M relationships.

The course requires a significant amount of reading and
writing, and presents a broad sample of speakers and films,
necessitating ample participation in class discussion.
Students expecting credit for the course must choose and
execute a project of considerable magnitude.


Send ideas to:			Will Doherty
				3651 Orinda St
				Palo Alto, CA  94306
				415-949-3328 or
				415-960-7442
		{decvax|ucbvax|???}sun!oscar!wild

-----------------------------------------------------------------

hollombe@ttidcc.UUCP (The Polymath)
08/21/85
(message was not found)
