Reply to Bill Cattey on Bars
levasseur@morgan.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin  223-5027)
07/29/85
   I logged in this morning and was greeted by 38 new mail messages; mostly
from net.motss readers urging me to keep posting. Some asked me to post
future articles on subjects that they were interested in. I do have about
a dozen more in outline form, which I'll post as time allows. The next will
be on trendsetting by gay pioneers, based on a term paper I wrote in a market-
ing class in college. I also have 3 gay Science Fiction short stories which
will not be posted to the net but hopefully published by one of the Sci-Fi
rags. I'm about one third of the way through a first draft gay novel about
the love affair between a state trooper and journalist. Friends who have read
what I've finished in the novel so far have shown a lot of enthusiasm. It is
not at all like the Jason stuff any of you have seen here. Well, let me comment
on Bill Cattey's posting;


>Most of the time I find Gay bars unpleasent places to visit.  I don't
>visit them much anymore.  I'd rather watch television, and I  haven't
>plugged my television in in nearly a year.

   Yeah, Bill I agree, they can be unpleasant; dark smokey places, smelling
of stale beer and urine, mixed with sweat and the various colognes worn by
the patrons. Oh gee! I almost forgot...poppers! I sometimes prefer tv myself.
At times Howard Cosell can be more interesting than the bar queens :-)

>You're right Rob!  Jason describes stereotypes of people seen from a
>distance.  The distance is the one they create.  I have all but given up
>trying to bridge that distance.  My observation is that if I meet you,
>for example, at a bar, you won't talk to me unless you have been
>introduced to me by someone we both know.  The rest of the environment
>is people keeping their distance.
 
    Right on! That was the point of view I was writing from, a casual
observer, sitting in the corner of the bar with my lap computer, jotting
down notes as I watched the show. I wasn't trying to act holier than thou,
but had to hold the whole scene at arm's length. I sometimes leap the
fence and join in the festivities. I'm glad none of you have seen me carry
on in a certain Levi bar in Boston on Club Days; I'de be sooo embarassed.

>Jason, your insights are right on target.  If I meet you at a bar, how
>can I know how to reach you in the midst of those clawing to meet me for
>the one night stand, or those who walk away in mid sentence?
 
   You'll know me by the army fatigues and machette I'll be carrying to cut
through the attitude. Clawing to meet you! WOW! you must be a real looker ;-)
I thought that I was the only person guys walked away from in mid-sentence,
now I don't feel so bad. I get the same feeling when I'm at my termiinal and
the host connection is lost.....Morgan lost interest in our session :-)

>Find me at Spinoff on Tuesdays.  The light is better, and when there is
>nobody I know, I can enjoy pure skating.  Gay skating is little better
>than bars, but I feel comfortable enough there so that I don't get so
>cynically pissed off when people play distance games.  Besides, a few of
>the better skaters are nice people and love to teach what they know.
 
   Hey! Spinoff is a very good alternative! I've been toying with going my-
self. Bill is right! Gay skating on Tuesdays is very pleasent at Spinoff;
unless the Red Sox are playing a night game, then good luck finding a park-
ing space. Bill send me mail if you'de like to meet for skating. How about
the rest of you locals; a Boston area net.motss skating contingent, only
thinking out loud.

                                Ray

-----------------------------------------------------------------

