The Age of AIDS
werner@aecom.UUCP (Craig Werner)
07/03/85
   As those in net.med/net.motss know, I have been posting summaries of
salient developments in the understanding of AIDS.  Well, almost the
entire June 21 issue of JAMA (Journal of the American Medical Assoc.)
is devoted to AIDS.  It would be too much to summarize all the articles
(and they do cover almost all issues collectively), so I am just posting
an edited version of one of the two editorials.
   I am also adding net.singles to the distribution for this time round
because AIDS can no longer be considered a disease of male promiscuous
homosexuals.  (In fact, in my own limited clinical experience,  the only
AIDS patient I have actually had contact with was a young women.)

				-Craig Werner.
-------------------------------------------------------------------
The Age of AIDS
A Great Time for defensive living.

It was the age of overindulgence. It was the age of tolerance for
anything in anyone. It was the age of fear of imposing one's
own social values on someone else's.  It was the age of the
trivialization of sex.  It was the age of anticelibacy. It was the
age when early teenage sex was commonplace.  It was the age 
when homosexuality came out of the closet and became almost 
acceptable to those who once found it intolerable.  It was the 
age of easy,  irresponsible  oversex,  abortion on demand,
chlamydia, and genital herpes. And it was the age of AIDS.

   Not since Syphilis among the Spanish, plague among the
French, tuberculosis among the Eskimos, and smallpox among
the American Indians has there been a threat of such a
scourge.  Yet, the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS)
is different from any disease previously seen clinically and
epidemiologically.  After the torrents of words that have been
written and spoken about AIDS, pre-AIDS, and all the rest, is
there anything else to say?  Yes, a great deal.  Thus, this is
another JAMA theme issue on AIDS, with MEDICAL NEWS 
stories, MMWR, ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTIONS, a brief report, a case
report, a special communication, QUESTIONS & ANSWERS, LETTERS,
and two editorials, all dealing with myriad aspects of this
gargantuan problem.
   The Medical community has responded brilliantly to this new
challenge with a rapid outpouring of correct new scientific
information.  The salient points are:
   1. AIDS is caused by an infectious agent, which has been
given three names but seems to be a single retrovirus.
   2. Many (but not all) who are exposed to the virus become
infected, but only some (perhaps 5% to 10% per year) who
become infected ultimately demonstrate symptoms.
   3. It is possible that cofactors may lower resistance to and
promote infectivity of the virus.
   4. The virus may be transmitted from an infected person
many years before the onset of clinical manifestations.
   5. Latency of many years may occur between transmission,
infection, and clinically manifest disease.
   6. Antibody testing of serum samples is a valuable method to
determine who has been exposed to the virus but it does not
make the diagnosis of AIDS.
   7. A very high percentage of those who develop the 
full-blown disease die.
   8. There is no known treatment for the immune deficiency,
and the treatment for complications are variable and inconsistent.
:
[Two columns on 'The Dilemma of Serological Testing']
:
[Header: 'The Virus must be contained', ending with:]
:
  Given the small likelihood of the success of this proposal, it
may behoove those people who do not wish to get AIDS to
adjust their life style so as to practice living defensively --
particularly in the sexual arena.  Individuals have the power to
protect themselves more than science currently can.  As far as 
we know, prevention is fairly simple.
   1. We should not inject blood or blood products that are
infected by the AIDS virus into another person.
   2. We should not share injection needles with someone who
is infected.
   3. [Women] who are carrying the AIDS virus should not 
become pregnant.
   4. We should not engage in sexual activity (oral, anal, or
vaginal) with someone who has the AIDS virus.
   5. We should consider instituting serological testing for 
HTLV-III before the issuing of marriage licenses.

   This is a great time to practice sexual monogamy.

			Editorial signed: George D. Lundberg, MD.
				JAMA (June 21, 1985) 253:3441.

--------
I have no comment on the above.

-- 
				Craig Werner
				!philabs!aecom!werner
		"The world is just a straight man for you sometimes"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
07/03/85
But inevitably I have comments, but only 2 cents worth, to avoid embroilment
in a net dispute.

AIDS wasn't a "disease of male promiscuous homosexuals".  Aside from
striking IV drug users, Haitians, Central Africans & European hetero-
sexuals, more than a few gay victims weren't promiscuous, unless
Lundberg means by "promiscuity" anything but strict monogamy, not what
most people mean by that term.  Given the long latency of the virus
(7 years in some cases of congenital AIDS), even stable sexual relation-
ships don't entirely eliminate the risk of exposure, though they do
greatly lower it: either partner may've been infected years ago.  I've
heard/read about gay victims who had been in stable relationships for
years, some of whom died without ever being able to explain to them-
selves how or why they got it.  Some AIDS cases seemingly resulted
from a single sexual contact, though heightened susceptibility of
individuals may be involved here.

This is NOT to criticize at all safe sex guidelines, perhaps even within
a sexually exclusive relationship (Dr. Lundberg is advocating hetero-
sexuality when he advises monogamy: it means "one woman" )=: ).  Every-
one, gay & straight, should also maintain their health & keep informed
about AIDS.

Making pregnancy or marriage depend on a negative test for HTLV-III is
absurd & fascistic, but is not surprising coming from JAMA.

Craig, why print an editorial, particularly that one, instead of a medical
article or a simple pointer to the JAMA issue?

					Cheers,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

jdh@mtung.UUCP (Julia Harper)
07/05/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

mmar@sphinx.UChicago.UUCP (Mitchell Marks)
07/06/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rob@ptsfa.UUCP (Rob Bernardo)
07/08/85
(message was not found)
