Personal Ad Hints
levasseur@morgan.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin  223-5027)
05/29/85
                               The Personals
                               =============

    I've met a lot of guys who complain that the only way to meet other gay
men is at the bars. I happen to live very close to Boston, which has a wide
variety of other alternatives; social, church, outdoor and other ways to
meet. There is one way of meeting which many men don't consider; the personal
ads in gay newspapers. Boston has GCN, Bay Windows and The Mirror which all
contain classified ad sections. The personals have always fascinated me since
there is an air of mystery behind the people posting the ads. I've met two of
my best friends through the ads; they can work. I've talked to a lot of men
who toyed with the idea of posting or answering ads but figured that none of
the ads were real. 
    I placed my first ad five years ago and got 47 responses; this wa in Jan-
uary. As an experiment I placed the same ad in June, using another box number
and got just 7 responses. One of the friends I met through my first ad had
been cruising the classifieds for years. He was a professional person who
didn't have the time or patience to hang out in bars.
    There are certain rules and etiquette to the ads which I'll share from my
own experience and that of friends who have used the medium. If you plan to
place an ad, consider your audience. It will be read by everyone from Doctors
to street hustlers. 

If you're answering an ad:

* Read the person's ad carefully. What is he asking for? If he's only looking
  for 23 year old blond surfers and your 50, pot bellied and bald, don't waste
  your time and his by responding. Some ads are very specific in what the per-
  son is looking for, some are not. If a guy says "GWM seeks same for fun and
  friendship" then I would assume that he's open to anyone answering. There are
  a lot of guys who start answering the minute they see "GWM"; they'll write
  letters to 30 or 40 people. 

* Some people are turned off by typed responses and will not answer your letter.
  If you have to type it, add some sort of personal touch like writing your
  greeting and sign off longhand.

* Be honest in your response. If you do get to meet the guy and you've told him
  that you're 35, slim and bearded, then you had better be. People tend to lie
  at the bars about what they do for a living, their achievments, etc. They
  can't lie about what they look like since you're looking them in the eye. The
  ads on the other hand allow guys to grossly misrepresent themselves physicly.
  They hope that the person who's ad they've answered will settle for what shows
  up; some will, a lot won't.

* Keep your initial introduction letter fairly casual. It turns a lot of people
  off when you tell them how lonely you are after the death of your ex-lover,
  etc. Also try not to brag about how wonderful you are before you meet the guy.
  He may get the impression that you're bullshitting him. I've gotten responses
  that had me in a long term committed relationship with the respondent before
  I could write or call back. These letters usually found their way into my
  wastebasket.

* Try not to respond with a Xeroxed form letter. I got a couple of these and
  didn't bother answering. I've gotten more than my share of form letter rej-
  ections from possible employers and don't need it in my personal life.

* If the author of the ad asks for a picture, use your own judgement on what to
  send. If he asks for a revealing photo, then you know what kind to send. If
  the ad just says "Photo a must" send a tasteful picture that you look good in;
  preferably fully clothed. Remember, you don't know where your picture will end
  up. I got some truly X rated Polaroids in responses to my ad and I didn't even
  request pictures. These got returned to the sender with a polite letter that
  basicly said "thanks, but no thanks!"

* Some guys will ask for a phone number; again use your better judgement. I gave
  out my phone number to a guy who requested numbers and my phone rang at all
  hours of the day and night. I never met the guy but he had fun harassing me
  for a few weeks. There are a lot of weirdos out there but most who ask for
  a phone are sincere and will usually introduce themselves.

* Try not to go into the gory details of how good you are in bed with graphic
  details from foreplay to orgasm unless that's what the person placing the ad
  wants to see.

* A lot of guys who place ads are quite closeted; some are married, live with
  their folks or are in a sensitive position careerwise. They can't afford to
  be seen in a public gay situation. A lot will place an ad and get cold feet
  after the responses start rolling in. 

* Don't be too disappointed if your wonderful response doesn't reap an offer
  of marriage. The person may be closeted, he may have gotten a bad impression
  of you from your letter, may have a lover or have met someone else in the
  interim.


If you plan to place an ad:

* Think out the content carefully. What are you looking for; friendship, sex,
  someone to work on cars with, etc? Remember! you're in control when you
  place the ad. In a way this is better than answering ads since you can pick
  and choose who you wish to meet. No matter how specific your ad is, you'll
  probably get your share of weirdos and people who misrepresent themselves.

* A lot of ads claim "Good looking" or "attractive" You can say this if you
  feel that you're a looker, but remember "Beauty is different to different
  people" Your friends may think that you're hot but everyone has different
  tastes. 

* One keyword to avoid in your ad or response is "Lonely" This one little
  word will scare a lot of people away. This will also attract a lot of
  losers who will get the impression that you're vulnerable or will settle
  for anything. Try to keep your ad positive since negativity will attract
  negative responses, or none at all.

* If you're well built you can say this in the ad but it may scare a lot of
  people away just as it will in the bars. I see a lot of very handsome,
  muscular men avoided because they intimidate other bar patrons "Egad! I
  don't stand a chance" I fit this to some extent; I work out and have the
  typical clone physique. I placed an ad that gave the description "6', 165
  lbs, lean muscular body, 28" waist, 42" chest". I attracted more losers
  and trolls then I could handle. The nice guys stayed away. It might be
  better to not play up the physical attributes and let the respondents
  get a pleasent surprise if you meet.
  
* Think of the responses as resumes from prospective employees. If an answer
  sounds too good to be true, it usually is. I got one response from a guy
  that was 27 pages long. This guy told me his entire life story, complete
  with descriptions of his 5 homes, private jet, stable full of expensive
  cars, etc. I usually read over the responses a few times before considering
  if I'll answer. This gives me a chance to read between the lines and exam-
  ine what's being said. I also analyze the handwriting and grammar. If a guy
  claims to be an "Injuneer" I either think that he's being funny or has the
  IQ of a Summer squash.

* You can either use a box supplied by the paper or one of your own. I have
  my own post office box which allows me to get the responses much quicker.
  I also ask for a phone number since it's the easiest and fastest way to
  make contact. Hearing the person's voice gives me a chance to tell if he's
  outgoing, closeted, etc before I decide if a meeting would be good.

* I did a little experiment; placed two ads at the same time, one using my
  own po box and the other using a box supplied by the paper. One ad was
  very specific and the other was general. I did this to see how many guys
  answered every ad they saw. The week I placed my ad, a friend placed one 
  also. We compared notes on responses and there were a few who answered
  both of my ads and my friend's also. His ad in no way resembled mine and
  we helped each other weed out responses. 

* Once I decide which response I'll answer, I usually call the person. In
  My ads I usually outline my hobbies. If the person claims to have the same
  interests I'll steer the conversation to hobbies and covertly quiz them on
  what they know. One respondent claimed to be very much into electronics as
  I am. After talking for a while I realized that the only exposure to elec-
  tronics he had was building a crystal set in Boy Scouts. Some guys will
  claim to have compatable interests just for the sake of meeting someone
  else. I don't usually pursue these very far since it makes me wonder how
  many other things the person is lieing about.

You've decided to get together:

* I usually chat with the person on the phone a few times before meeting
  unless they seem to be interesting from the beginning. One of my friends
  who I met through the ads kept me in stitches on the phone for two hours.
  I decided to meet him that same night and he was funnier in person. There
  were also those who couldn't keep a conversation going longer than the
  "Hello, I'm Ray...you answered my ad"

* If you don't have a picture of the person then you'll have to take what
  they say about their appearance at face value. Ask what they'll be wearing
  and tell them what you'll have on.

* It's wise to meet in a public place for the first time. If they try getting
  you to meet them in a place that's strange to you, negotiate for a place
  that you both know about. I usually set up the first meeting at a well
  known coffee shop or restaurant that's easy for both of us to get to. I
  *don't* go to their place to meet. If things work out well, then I may go
  to their place or make another date. I also don't usually make the first
  date in a gay bar; if I do, it's usually in a quiet non-cruise bar where
  we can talk.

* I usually get to the meeting place a little early so that I can pick out a
  seat with a clear view of the door. This doesn't usually happen but if I
  see the guy come in with a gang carrying baseball bats, I can make a beeline
  for the door; again I like to be in control until I feel comfortable.

* Be prepared for a lot of no shows! Most will meet at the appointed time and
  place but there are those who will get cold feet and stand you up. I'll us-
  ually stay until an hour or so after the agreed time, then leave. I may call
  the person back to re-schedule if I feel that he honestly couldn't show up
  for a good reason. My policy is "Giv'em one chance"

* Ok! so Mister Wonderful walks in. You'll be able to tell pretty fast if you
  and he will hit it off. Did he claim to be a hot dark haired urban clone and
  wind up to be a beer bellied trucker? Don't be rude if you're disappointed
  in what shows up. You can have a polite conversation and excuse yourself.
  He's probably used to much worse happening. I will usually hint to the fact
  that he kinda lied about himself. The meeting usually either ends up being
  an all night gabfest or a tension filled half hour of long silent periods.

* I talked to a guy who met a man in a parking lot in the evening. The guy asked
  for a description of my friend's car. It ended up being a setup by fag bash-
  ers. His car got trashed and he was badly beaten. Yes! there are fag bashers
  who cruise the ads but this doesn't happen very often


   The ads can be a lot of fun. One guy I knew placed a personal ad and ended
up starting a gay social group in a small town with the guys who answered. It's
hard to pick out the guys in a bar who are into the same things that I am. I
once thought of having a tea shirt made that read "Into Audio, Video, Writing,
Cycling, Hiking, Reading. I'm Grk/Fr Act/Pass and like to cuddle". Liars and
everything else aside, the ads are a great forum to meet others who share sim-
ilar interests. Happy hunting!


                                              Ray

-----------------------------------------------------------------

