Some Views
jimc@haddock.UUCP
06/05/85
I have always felt strongly about homosexuality, and having read 
this newsgroup for almost a year now, I would like to air some 
opinions on what I perceive to be the reality of the situation.  

No one seems to know for sure what causes homosexuality.  
However, it seems likely that much of what has been classically 
perceived as the "causes" of homosexuality are not truly such.  
To begin, homosexuality is not is not a voluntary condition.  I 
don't think anyone knows for certain why his or her sexuality is 
a certain way; all that is known is that it is just part of one's 
character.  I cannot remember a time when I was not heterosexual; 
most admitted homosexuals say the same thing about their 
sexuality.  There is no "preference"; it just is.  It also 
behaves like a hereditary physical condition in that no one is 
cured of it.  Just as my hair is brown or that my skin is white, 
I am attracted to women and not men.  Just as my uncle's hair is 
black and his eyes are blue, he is attracted to men and not 
women.  

Beyond its indelibility, other characteristics stand out.  
Certainly, homosexuality is an emotional as well as physical 
orientation, just as heterosexuality is.  One feels more 
excitement, more wonder, more fascination in the sex one is 
attracted to than to the other.  For these reasons, the 
homosexual seeks out close relationships with members of the same 
sex.  Often, these relationships become sexual, but not always.  
Bigoted heterosexuals have often said that homosexuality is 
simply a matter of "lust", when in truth, homosexuals are known 
to fall in love with members of their own sex and not ever have 
sex with them, just as heterosexuals do.  Of course, some 
homosexuals treat their sexuality as only a means of physical 
gratification, but to say this is a tendency intrinsic to the 
homosexual community alone would be an obvious mistake.  

On the other extreme, a form of feminism known as separatism 
claims that women as a whole would profit from attempting to form 
their own societies, free of male influence and seeking sexual 
gratification from only other women.  I have also heard militant 
homosexuals claim that everyone has the potential to be at least 
bisexual.  In that vein, some sociologists claim that the future 
holds a time of complete sexual freedom in which everyone will 
have sexual relationships with members of both sexes.  These 
opinions seem just as incorrect as the opinions held by those who 
believe homosexuality is "imagined" or "curable."  I do not feel 
that the permissiveness of the society in which we live will 
prompt any truly heterosexual people to adopt a bisexual or 
homosexual lifestyle, or vice versa.  To say that heterosexuals 
would become bisexual under more permissive circumstance seems to 
be a commission of exactly the same error homosexuals often 
accuse of heterosexuals: sexuality is not a matter of decision.  
In my case, I have never had a sexual experience with a man, nor 
would I ever want to because that is not my orientation.  It 
would not matter how satisfying such experience is to others; it 
just is not part of me.  

I guess the most interesting aspect of sexuality is its profound 
effect on the personality.  What could cause sexual preference, 
something so deep in the human character that it seems 
inaccessible to all psychological or biological inquiry?  It is 
certainly not only the need for the human race to perpetuate 
itself, or there would be no homosexuality.  Homosexuality does 
not seem to be a direct reaction to overpopulation, either, or I 
do not feel homosexuality would exist in this country to the 
degree it does.  It is certainly not created through the biddings 
of the culture in which we live.  I am interested in the theory 
that homosexuality tends to form in individuals whose mothers 
have gone through great stress while they were still *in utero*, 
or that it has genetic cause and emerges as an atavistic 
condition.  The real test of either theory would come in the case 
of identical twins.  Is it possible for one of them to be gay, 
while the other is not?  Also, one has to realize that many 
mammals exhibit homosexual behavior.  Would homosexuality occur 
in other species for same reasons?  Also, I wonder if lesbianism 
has the same causes as male homosexuality.  They might be very 
different.  Finally, if the causes of homosexuality are ever 
identified, what could be said about the causes of 
heterosexuality?  

I am very interested in seeing what science produces in this field.
Until then, I hope society continues to mature as it has been, slowly
disallowing the healthy, immutable traits of the individual to be any
longer a reason for discrimination.

				Jim Campbell
				...!ihnp4!ima!haddock!jimc

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sophie@mnetor.UUCP (Sophie Quigley)
06/13/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

ck@ima.UUCP
06/18/85
(message was not found)
