Subject: Call for members of mailing list
@MIT-MULTICS.ARPA:Kurt_Ernulf@QZCOM.MAILNET
07/13/85
From: Kurt_Ernulf%QZCOM.MAILNET@MIT-MULTICS.ARPA

To the researcher on homosexuality



Communication among researchers and advanced students interested in homo-
sexuality has so far been a substantial problem. Research on homosexual-
ity has been conducted at different universities widely spread around the
U.S. and the rest of the world.

Even though there are some excellent publications where the researcher
can publish his or her results, the possibilities to stay in contact with
other researchers have been too few.

With the advent of computer based message systems the means of communica-
tion have been substantially improved. The ARPA, MAILNET and other net-
works have come to mean an efficient and almost immediate way to keep up
global contacts.

Research areas like computer science and medicine have already taken the
advantage of the new facilities. Now it is our turn!

This letter is part of a feasibility study that is being conducted at the
Psychology department, University of G|teborg, Sweden. The aim is to
investigate the possibility of using computer based message systems to
enhance the communication between researchers in psychology. As the topic
for the study we have chosen our own field, i.e. "Human homosexuality".


In the near future we hope to create a "mailing list" where research
issues regarding homosexuality can be discussed. We hope that it will
prove to be an excellent and fruitful way to enhance knowledge and commu-
nication within the field of homosexuality.

If you are interested to participate in the "mailing list", or if you
have any questions or comments, please send a line via the ARPA net to:
Kurt_Ernulf%QZCOM.MAILNET@MIT-MULTICS.ARPA
or to
Sune_Innala%QZCOM.MAILNET@MIT-MULTICS.ARPA
(The "_" is an underline, not a hyphen, and it is essential.)

We look forward to your response to our call!!


Sune M. Innala              Kurt E. Ernulf
Ph.D. cand.                 Ph.D. cand.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

