State of the Union: \"Gay Boston.\"
fisher@smiley.DEC (Gerry --- Terminally Inane)
07/17/85
Newsgroups: net.motss
Path: decwrl!decvax!dec-rhea!dec-smiley!fisher
Subject: RE: Ahhh, Steve Dyer [Ken Arndt, AIDS, political ...]
Organization: DEC Engineering Network -- Nashua, NH


>>... - that the homosexual movement is losing political power
>>and in danger of going backwards - ...
 
>As far as losing political power is concerned, this definitely seems to be 
>true at least in Boston, ...


This is an oversimplification, and as far as Boston "the city" is 
concerned, not at all true.  Let me give you folks the "State of Gay 
Boston" as I perceive it:

1)  	In the city of Boston, we elected our first openly gay city 
	councilperson in 1983: David Scondras.  He has successfully linked 
	the gay community with the other communities in the "Rainbow 
	Coalition": black groups, handicapped groups, neighborhood 
	groups, et. al.  Evidence of this new coalition is the passing 
	of a broad based human rights ordinance which makes it 
	possible for the city to make life difficult for those who 
	discriminate against gays, blacks, women, the handicapped, 
	etc.  To pass a rights ordinance of this breadth during such 
	conservative times is truly an outstanding accomplishment; 
	there was only one dissenting vote on the council.

	As of this date, there are no serious challengers to Scondras' 
	seat (Bostonians, correct me if I'm wrong).

	Interesting note: on election night, while on camera, David 
	kissed his lover.  To my knowledge, the only people who made a 
	big deal out of this "bold gesture" were gay people: they 
	weren't sure if this "statement" was "politically correct."

2)	The Aids Action Committee of Boston recently received large grants 
	from both the financially-strapped city and the financially-
	secure state.  This was due to the hard work of the AAC 
	director, Larry Kessler, and his volunteers who are learning 
	to apply for grants instead of simply relying on dances and 
	"passing the bucket" to raise funds.  To win the support of Boston 
	mayor Kevin Flynn, Kessler took him on a tour of Gay Boston that 
	included visitations with AIDS patients. Since then, the mayor has 
	become and *active* supporter of our community, to the dismay 
	of his long-time, blue-blood supporters in Irish/Catholic South 
	Boston.

	Interesting note: Gov. Dukakis is due to appear at an AAC Art 
	Auction/Fundraiser this September. At first, I felt that we should 
	ban him from the premises, but on second thought, I'd like to see 
	him squirm in his own hypocrisy in front of hundreds of gays 
	and lesbians; kill him with kindness so to speak!

3)	A new weekly newspaper, Bay Windows, is now entering its second 
	or third year (I can't remember).  The impressive thing about 
	Bay Windows is that it is the second "major" gay newspaper to 
	come out of Boston (The Gay Community News being the first, 
	and one of the nation's oldest), and that it has established 
	itself so *quickly*.

	Interesting note: this paper sells in metal "boxes" 
	on the street, similar to those that contain the Boston Globe, 
	the New York Times, etc. What a bold move!  To my knowledge, 
	there has been minimal damage done to these boxes! Out of the 
	closets and into the metal boxes!

4)	I'm sure that I'm going to offend someone with this next 
	statement; please forgive me!  

	Boston is the home of national gay "spokespeople" Eric Rofes 
	(author; nominated for chairperson of National Gay Task Force)
	and Michael Bronski (author: The Culture Clash).  Surely, 
	there are others; I just wanted to mention a few who are 
	currently in the public eye.

5)	Last year, a southern Massachusetts district re-elected 
	congressperson Gerry Studds to another term in Congress.  
	Despite his affair with a male congressional page, and despite 
	the conservativism of his district, his effectiveness as a 
	politician was more of an issue than his sexuality.

6)	Congressperson Barney Frank, from Massachusetts, is leading 
	the fight against the immigration laws that are so unfair to 
	gays and lesbians.

7)	At the '85 Gay Pride march, 27,000 people participated, 
	shattering the record set in '83, 18,000.


In closing, I'd like to echo a point made by Virginia Apuzzo (sp?), 
former director of the National Gay Task Force.  She said that the 
most exciting things happening in "the movement" are not political in 
the strictest sense. She said that in her travels across the country, 
it was the growing vitality of the *local* organizations that amazed 
her.

What Governor Dukakis did to us (when he removed those foster kids 
from the gay couple's home) hurt us politically, not only in 
Massachusetts, but across the country. But, don't waste your pity on 
us!  In most ways, we are much stronger than we were last year and the 
foster care issue was a temporary stumble; we lost the last round but 
I think we are still winning the fight.  The foster care issue is 
indicative of state-wide power we never *really* had in the first 
place.  How could we have lost something we never really had!

As Virginia Apuzzo said, the day we can transfer the local power and 
energy to strong state and national movements, will be the day we can 
start talking about "political power."  There are many stumbling blocks 
to this goal, but in "local" Boston, I think we're doin' pretty good!

				Wishing you all the same,

				Gerry Fisher

...decvax!decwrl!dec-rhea!dec-smiley!fisher
