NY Gay Pride Parade
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
07/01/85
Despite constant threats from weather forecasts, Sunday's parade, rally
& street fair on Christopher Street took place under hot (80s) sunny
skies.  It seemed like there were many more spectators than last year,
& the mood was livelier (the numbing number of AIDS deaths in NYC in
the last half-year & the grim resulting public mood surprisingly cast
no gloom at all on the festivities).

All the groups that usually participate were there from NY, the northeast,
& farther afield, plus four or more marching bands, majorettes, a large
Dykes from Delaware contingent, floats, classic cars, and a Mummer's band
(which caused a sensation along the parade route down Fifth Avenue) & 
large raucous following from Philadelphia.

One of the high points of the event was Sybil, a guy in a nearly strapless
prom dress with a build that would torment an Arnold Schwarzenegger, who
alternately flexed & simpered while seated atop a convertible.

The meat rack that resulted down by the docks west of the Village was
dazzling, as hordes strolled onto the docks to gaze at the New Jersey
shore in the brilliant sunlight, as the rally chugged on next door with
virtually no audience (the Boston rally was also deadly with its long
program of utterly predictable speechifying).

An article on an AIDS breakthrough appeared in the Saturday NYTimes:
researchers have discovered a gene in HTLV-III that controls (I think)
the rate at which the virus multiplies, in a location where no such gene 
had been expected.  This sounds really major: HTLV-III grows at as many
as 1,000 times the rate of the cancer-causing (non-AIDS) HTLV-I, for
example.  A crucial fact about full-blown AIDS seems to be the sheerly
overwhelming nature of the AIDS' virus attack on the immune system.

The discovery is promising for the eventual creation of a vaccine and
even treatment of AIDS patients.  Is Craig Werner or any other netters
out there willing to post a detailed article?

						Regards,
						Ron Rizzo
