Ahhh, Steve Dyer Ken Arndt, AIDS, political bedfellows, etc.
francini@argus.DEC (This Space Available for Rent or Lease)
07/15/85
In a previous article Ken Arndt made some comments about the political 
status of homosexuality at present that deserve, well, comment.

>I raise a simple (clear) point that has already
>been made on the net - that the homosexual movement is losing political power
>and in danger of going backwards - and memtion that there may be allies to be
>found in strange quarters - Jerry Falwell - and you burp up the ole "ignore
>arndt" routine.  
 
As far as losing political power is concerned, this definitely seems to be 
true at least in Boston, with pimpleheads like Dukakis sacrificing one part 
of the coalition of groups that put him into power in order to placate his 
broader-based support amongst the highly Catholic majority in 
Massachusetts.  While it is indeed unfortunate that the pendulum has begun 
to swing back to the right with seemingly increasing speed, things aren't 
quite as bad as they were in the 50s (yet).

I have to admit that I don't know enough about Falwell's standing on gays 
to make an educated comment about his being on or anywhere near our side.

>Well, pull the sheets up over your head if you wish - alot more people then
>ME are upset about AIDS pal - but if it comes to the time when you 
>lovely little guys and gals are rounded up in the thrill of the moment 
>you'll need people of
>influence to speak up for your rights.  Sure Jerry doesn't go for the whole
>agenda, but he doesn't see you as subhuman - as a lot DO!!

Since AIDS has become more than just a 'gay' problem (see last month's LIFE 
(or was it this month's?) with the cover story about no one being safe from 
AIDS anymore), it has begun to attract large-scale interest, with research 
dollars finally being shaken loose in respectable amounts.

 
>The mood of the country is to reclaim some of the moral values that we have
>lived by in the past.  These are the '80s not the '60s and '70s!  People are
>tired of the radical crap.

It's not quite that bad, but things have changed, unfortunately.  We once 
again have people trying to make other people obey a particular set of 
'morals' that are believed by these people to be the One True and Correct 
Way of Behaving.  Whatever happened to the separation of church and state?  

>The best that can be worked up is to screw a few
>more blacks in South Africa, ignoring what's happening to them in black 
>African countries, and sing your little hearts out for food for starving 
>people made
>that way by their government and KEPT that way by the government as a matter
>of political policy - the line is the food is rotting on the docks because 
>they don't have transportation, the fact that the people needing the food are
>fighting against the government has nothing to do with the lack of 
>transportation of course!

What a teribly CYNICAL way to completely write-off the over $40 million 
raised by Live Aid.  Because of these people 'singing their little hearts 
out', the relief organizations will HAVE to trucks to move the food.  The 
famine was caused by a set of complex conditions - exacerbated by the 
policies of the government - which would have brought about the current 
problems even if the current goverment was 100% helpful.

 
>Just take a peek down the road past Reagan and you should start faintin'.

Why faint?  '88 will be the best chance since '76 to put a Democrat back in 
the White House.  Who is the GOP going to run who will have the charisma, 
personality, and stubborn optimism that Reagan has?  Bush?  Hardly.  It's 
still far too early to tell, though, but the future isn't completely bleak.

[I have to say, though, that while I hate what he's done to social programs 
in this country, I am glad he gave more money to NASA for peaceful space 
exploration.]

 
>You just can't seem to understand how someone could believe homosexuality
>is wrong and fight against legal marriages, children in their homes, etc.
>and at the same time have respect for other civil rights for homosexuals!
>The art of compromise.  As I said at the start - your way or not at all!
 
>I fear it will be not at all.
 
To achieve 'not at all' would require the largest subversion of the express 
and interpreted meaning of the Constitution that we have ever seen in the 
history of this country.  Actually, it will probably remain a partial 
affair for quite some time to come.  While complete gay civil rights would 
be an honorable goal to achieve, it is nevertheless going to be a tough 
fight to reach it.  Legally sliding back the other way, to the 'not at all' 
state described above would be stopped dead at the Supreme Court and the 
Constitution (shy of a Constitutional amendment).

I hope that the previous comments are taking in the same spirit of non-flammable 
objective analysis that they were intended to be in.


John J. Francini

...decvax!decwrl!dec-rhea!dec-argus!francini
