Times of Harvey Milk
millines@fortune.UUCP (Trish Millines)
11/09/84
*** REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR MESSAGE ***

    Last night I had the wonderful experience of seeing "The Times of
Harvey Milk".  In 1978 I was a college student on the east coast just 
beginning to feel comfortable about being gay and I had no idea what was
going on out here.  After seeing this movie, I wished that I was in San
Francisco in the 70's, just to experience the effect that Harvey Milk had on
gays, minorities, handicapped, and the elderly.
    Watching documentaries is not EVEN my thing, specially if it's about
a politcal figure, so I went in with a skeptical attitude.  Within 5 minutes,
the skepticism disappeared.  The movie consisted of interviews with people who
worked with Milk politically and socially, footage from news broadcasts, and
snapshots from various photographers. It's hard to explain the amount of
emotion that the audience was feeling, but they were definitely feeling every
bit of those events that were shown before their eyes. - Chances are that alot
of them were there when it all happened.  There was plenty of tears and 
laughter to go around.
    I left that movie feeling like I wanted to turn back the hands of time
just so I could meet Harvey Milk.  It left me feeling proud to be a member
of the San Francisco gay/minority community and very thankful that the city
had the opportunity to enjoy Milk as a supervisor for the short time he was in
office.  But seeing the outcome of the Dan White trial made me lose more
faith (the little I had) in the judicial system.
    I suggest that if this movie is in your town or near you, GO SEE IT!!!
You won't be disappointed.

Trish

-----------------------------------------------------------------

training@rtech.UUCP (Training account)
06/11/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
06/20/85
I hereby apologize to Stephen Hutchison & Robert Orenstein for the
personal insults & generally offensive tone of my replies to their
postings.

However, I don't concede the points I made, & I still think that
homophobia informs their interest & opinion on Dan White, however
much they may deplore this as an ad hominem attack.

I'd like to note here the resurgence of an aggressive conservative
revisionism that has targeted gay figures/ideas/events as well as
others in often crude & prejudiced attempts to "debunk myths",
attempts that often heavily rely on the ignorance of the public
or the omission of obvious or compelling issues or facts.

Messers Hutchison & Orenstein probably aren't conservatives &
would decry the label revisionist, but their postings struck me
as part of the tide of revisionism from the right that's current.
My perceptions may be awry.

I haven't read Mike Weiss's book on the White trial, but I wonder
whether Weiss concurs with Robert Orenstein that White killed
Milk only out of political reasons & not homophobia?  Municipal 
assassination is rare in the US, but homophobic city workers,
paranoid cops & firemen, dirty politics, & personal conflicts
between city politicians aren't at all.  The unusually brutal
slayings in City Hall in 1978 suggest an unusual cause/motive/
factor: homophobia, achieving focus by the presence of an openly
gay & aggressive elected official.

Once again, my apologies for my rather vicious & ugly attacks on
Mr. Orenstein & Hutchison.  

					Regards,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

