Jerry lovs ya Update
arndt@apple.DEC
07/09/85
I just received some mail "Emergency Disease Alert!" from Christian Voice.
You remember them, the lobby group that is credited with much of what happened
last election.  At least according to 60 minutes and Norman Lear and other
hysterical liberal types.  The people really didn't vote against the liberals,
they just didn't understand what they were doing - after all how COULD anyone
in their right mind vote against the liberal agenda - and that was because
'radical right wing groups' like Christian Voice fogged the issues.

Of course it's about AIDS.  As you read the quotes below please keep in mind
what I said about Jerry.  These folks are not adverse to puttin' you away!!

"A San Francisco newspaper - Thursday, October 18, 1984 - report said that 53%
of homosexuals are carriers of the virus that causes AIDS -- according to the
homosexuals' own figures that means there are over 10 million AIDS carriers!"

"We can't sit back and hope and pray for some public action to be taken.  We
have got to be safe in hospitals, restaurants, and public places.  Researchers
beleive AIDS can even be spread by saliva and perhaps just by  constant
exposure."

"Our children deserve a school free from this dreaded communicable disease."

"We are not trying to hurt homosexuals or lock them away from the rest of the
public . . . but we are serious about protecting ourselves from the ravages of
diseases started and passed on by homosexuals."

"This is not un-Christian but responsible.  And we intend fro our government
to take this responsibility to the public."

"But first we must rally massive public pressure.  Our government has acknowledged the threat of this plague by spending $100,000,000 on research for a cure --
coming up with little or nothing.  Why then won't the government spend 10 cents
to tell us how to protect ourselves.  IF WE CAN'T ISOLATE THE DISEASE, WE MUST
ISOLATE THE DISEASE SPREADERS. (italics theirs)"

**************
Now you can see the not quite accurate statements made above.  You know, the
way anti-Christian speakers (some homosexuals included, right?) address the
beliefs and actions of Christians.

The point I'm making is that people ARE starting to take action and get upset
and is that the smell of panic in the air??  Remember this little letter I
received goes to MILLIONS of American homes!!!!  These people have a network
like you wouldn't believe!  And in light of the way the dems are dumpin' the
homosexuals and other 'non-traditional' groups and movin' to the right (even
ole Tubby Teddy for cryin' out loud!) it doesn't look like a fun time ahead.

A few more years of exponential growth of AIDS and hey presto, "SOMEBODY DO
SOMETHING BEFORE MY KIDS GET SICK!!!"  I'd like to hear some ideas from you
guys besides, "I'm not spreadin' AIDS.", etc.  I'm not at all sure WHAT you
can do.  But ONE thing you can do is exercise some common sense in attending
those wonderful 'GAY Pride' marches - dump the geeks that are such an affront
to the public taste and those who actually ATTACK the moral values of the
majority (Sister Boom Boom, etc.).  I mean, it doesn't take much thought to
see making fun of someone's cherished beliefs makes for bad feelings.  And I
think you guys and gals will need all the friends you can muster over the next
few years.  My point about Jerry!  Don't be fooled by the circle of friends 
and workers, etc who are all 'feel good' and 'modern' about homosexuality.
I can see them turning on you if the rubber meets the road.  Yuppies are NOT
the wave of the future!  One of these days the banks will call in their debt
and they'll be Yuppies no longer.  (They, as a group, have one of the highest
debt rates.)

People are going to stop patronizing restaurants with 'gay' waiters, etc.
Will there be posters in Rest Rooms diagraming how to exit the stalls using
only your elbows??

Yea, yea the kids poll in favor of leaving the homosexuals alone.  But will
it be the same when they grow up??  Where are the radicals of the '60's now?
Isn't Jerry Rubin working on Wall Street?  Is there really a change in the
weather vis a vis morals?  Are people getting fed up with the 'anything goes'
stuff?  Religion is MORE popular with he folks today than it was in the decades
past!  It's GROWING!!!  And it's no secret what organized religion thinks about
homosexuality.  And don't believe that merde about politics and religion don't
mix.  We ALL know better!  Just ask William Sloan Coffin.

I sent them $20.

Regards,

Ken Arndt
