Ahhhh, Steve Dyer
arndt@lymph.DEC
07/14/85
Your way or not at all, eh?  I raise a simple (clear) point that has already
been made on the net - that the homosexual movement is losing political power
and in danger of going backwards - and memtion that there may be allies to be
found in strange quarters - Jerry Falwell - and you burp up the ole "ignore
arndt" routine.  

Well, pull the sheets up over your head if you wish - alot more people then
ME are upset about AIDS pal - but if it comes to the time when you lovely littleguys and gals are rounded up in the thrill of the moment you'll need people of
influence to speak up for your rights.  Sure Jerry doesn't go for the whole
agenda, but he doesn't see you as subhuman - as a lot DO!!

So remain 'pure' and rebuff Jerry (and me) and take the lumps alone.

HEY DUDE, YOU LIVIN' IN A HOLE SOMEWHERE????

The mood of the country is to reclaim some of the moral values that we have
lived by in the past.  These are the '80s not the '60s and '70s!  People are
tired of the radical crap.  The best that can be worked up is to screw a few
more blacks in South Africa, ignoring what's happening to them in black Africalncountries, and sing your little hearts out for food for starving people made
that way by their government and KEPT that way by the government as a matter
of political policy - the line is the food is rotting on the docks because 
they don't have transportation, the fact that the people needing the food are
fighting against the government has nothing to do with the lack of transportatilof course!

Just take a peek down the road past Reagan and you should start faintin'.
I'm not in the mood to help people who don't want to even talk to me and call
me names when I raise questions they don't like or want to look at.  Yea, I 
know, you don't like the way I lift my leg or something.

Well, a few more 'Gay Pride' marches on the telly and etc. and . . . .

You just can't seem to understand how someone could believe homosexuality
is wrong and fight against legal marriages, children in their homes, etc.
and at the same time have respect for other civil rights for homosexuals!
The art of compromise.  As I said at the start - your way or not at all!

I fear it will be not at all.

You got any better suggestions as to what to do - or do you see a bright
picture?

Regards,

Ken Arndt
