To Bill H.....
heiser@cca.UUCP (Bill Heiser)
03/21/85
> 
> Hi Bill:
> 
> Is it just you and me pal?  I noticed the same thing.  Not much traffic.
> 
> Not like the good old days, eh?  Is everyone off on motss.mod???
> Perhaps we're not so happy about coming out of the closet on the net, given
> the way things are going in the country right now.  What ever happened to
> that conference at Harvard that was going to discuss the prospects for
> homosexuals after the recent election and things??  Have you heard??  I seem
> to have missed the report about it.
> 
> Why don't we strike up a conversation about Jerry Falwell's position on the
> homosexuals?  I mean, I've HEARD him say that he loves the homosexuals while
> not agreeing with their ways.  Now not many of those who oppose you guys have
> said that!  He stands up for homosexual rights to certain things, you know.
> Might be worthwhile looking into.  I find myself agreeing with Jerry even
> as I also reject homosexuality as 'normal' or acceptable from a Christian
> standpoint.  You (the collective you) might find you have a 'friend' there.
> 
> If I do get back into motss discussions I have no, or little intention - the
> road to hell is paved, etc., to 'bait' you all again.  It was a very interestingtime for me to reach out and touch you so to speak.  I learned a lot.
> 
> Best regards,
> 
> Ken Arndt

*** REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR MESSAGE ***
Mr. Arndt,
    First of all, I shouldn't be calling you Mr. ANYTHING...  I guess it was
more out of sarcasm than anything else.  You are an insensitive jerk for
posting an article to a worldwide network, including an individual's name
in the subject heading.  If this was net.auto or net.micro.pc, it would be
one thing;  but in a newsgroup such as this, your insensitivity is inexcusable.

    Second of all, I don't give a damn about what Jerry Falwell thinks about
"the homosexuals".  Since I don't live the life of "the homosexuals", I could
not care less what he happens to think about them.   

    As crappy as your attitude is, you did get one point right;  it definitely
is NOT "normal" to lead a "homosexual" lifestyle.  Since there are (by far)
more straight people than gays, homosexuality would definitely not fall 
within the norm.  

    Your phrase "you (and the collective you)" was definitely very
presumptuous.  As a matter of fact, it bordered on being downright
obnoxious.  You are in absolutely no position whatsoever to place any
labels on me, just because I "happen" to read this newsgroup.   After all,
what does that make you???  Even if I did choose to lead a homosexual
lifestyle and not follow ways of "normal people" (as you would say),
it would still not be your place to place me in any specific category.

    I hope one of these days you grow up, Arndt, and stop playing these
childish high school games of playing MR. Big Guy, criticizing people for
how they choose to live their lives.  Even though I don't necessarily
advocate "homosexuality", I am sensitive enough to people's feelings so
I can understand how it must feel to be in a minority group such as that.
After all, people are what they are, and NO ONE (on Earth) has ANY right
whatsoever to try to change them.

    I think I have gotten my point across (unless you are just plain
stupid, which I think is a strong possibility, based on what I have seen
of your previous postings), so that is all I have to say.  Unless you have
something intelligent (and of interest to other readers of this newsgroup),
why don't you go play in your sandbox...


'nuff said...
-- 

Network: decvax!cca!heiser
USPS:  Bill Heiser, PO Box 3202, Peabody, MA   01961-3202
 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

