Who's alive in New England?
vip@philabs.UUCP (V. I. P.)
04/29/85
I spend virtually every weekend in New England (Providence, RI).  I 
have been doing this for some time.  My best friend (childhood buddies)
lives there and I am working on a number of projects that require that 
I spend time there.

There's only one problem.  While Providence in itself is pleasant enough
it appears that a great many of the people who live there are the worst
sort of working-class morons (I realize this is rather strong language
but sometimes they make me so angry I can restrain myself) I have ever
come across in my life.  They run around in these small (really small)
cliques of Portuguese and Italians (don't mind those groups -- just 
in cliques)appearing to ignore everyone else.  At first I just thought 
they were racists, but now I realize that they just don't like anyone 
that's not exactly like them.  While I am of mixed heritage (American 
black and British) my friend in Providence is White with blond hair 
and blue eyes.  They don't like him either!

I don't quite understand this phenomenon.  Both of us make out rather
well in New York, where I spend all week.  He recently told me that a 
school mate of his had told him that Rhode Island has the highest 
rate of iliteracy in the country.  Could this account for their 
attitudes?  Perhaps they are simply intimidated by the prospect of 
interacting with someone who is obviously not one of *them*.

But them Boston bores me too.  Someone recently told me that all
the men in Boston that are even worth giving a second glance or
caring on a conversation with spend their weekends in New York.

I am anxious to meet some men in the Providence/Boston area that
can prove to me that their is still life up there.  While my friend 
in Providence is great company, I would like to have a little romantic 
involvement as well as make a few other friend there if I have to
spend so much time there.  If you think you're even the slightest 
bit interesting/attractive/sexy/fun drop me some mail.  

I will be in Providence every weekend for the forseeable future.

					Brian Day

UUCP:  philabs!exquisit!{brian,root}

-----------------------------------------------------------------

maa@ssc-bee.UUCP (Mark A Allyn)
05/01/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

