Whoops....syntax error on first try
levasseur@morgan.DEC (Castro Street Shuffle)
04/01/85
From:	RHEA::MAILER-DAEMON  1-APR-1985 15:01
To:	morgan::levasseur  ! Castro Street Shuffle
Subj:	Unable to deliver mail to decwrl::net,motss 

    Bad recipient name syntax or no such user
Date: Monday,  1 Apr 1985 11:54:46-PST

------- Returned Message

Date: Monday,  1 Apr 1985 11:35:03-PST
From: morgan::levasseur  (Castro Street Shuffle)
To: decwrl::net,motss
Subject: Apartments and Roomies

   Since I left for vacation there seems to have been a lot of flaming
done on the subject of choosing roomies. I placed an ad in net.motss
last Fall trying to find a *gay* roomate in the inner Rte 128 area; what
I got was a lot of irate mail from heterosexuals telling me I was pre-
judgiced toward straights. "Not at all" I reply. If I had an apartment
for rent and said "only gays accepted" I can see where I could get into
trouble with the law but no-one is gonna tell me who will share my bath-
room, kitchen, and living room with. 
   I've lived with straights before and it didn't work at all. It was
alright for him to have girlfriends over but not ok for me to have gay
male friends spend the night. I know there are heteros who are more
liberal but by and large give me a gay male or female roomate any day.
At least having a gay roomie, I can share feelings that a straight co-
habitator might not understand or want to hear. We can also vacation
together in Provincetown, have dinner parties for gay friends and in
general be ourselves. So why not specify who you want to live with; 
there's nothing wrong with it? If I were a born again Christian, I'de
want to live with other born agains so we could have prayer meetings,
etc or whatever they do in the privacy of their homes.
   A lot of the responses to my earlier ad argued that I was seriously
limiting my choices by specifying *Gay* roomate. Perhaps; but I was
also looking for the alternative which offered the least tension since
the workday has enough in it already.

            Ray (who's found a roomate but needs an apartment in the
                 Waltham area by 5/1)


------- End of Returned Message
