Coming out at work
peterson@vaxwrk.DEC (Bob Peterson)
03/19/85
Robert's experience sounds very intriguing, being as public as he seems to be 
about it.  Would NGTF or a similar rights force be interested in being a 
non-participating observer?  Especially considering he's walked thru some 
open doors right to the very top.  I was impressed that he actually went all
the way to the top.  I wonder how MITRE would rank on the NGTF survey. 

I don't like the "We've got to drawn the line somewhere." quote.  He could have 
phrased that though explanation of his position - but he probably hasn't 
reasoned it out fully - comes out sounding like a well-dressed, reasonable 
phobia.

I would categorize roommate qualifications in three parts, Physical, Rules of 
the Lease, and Emotional.

Physical compatibility I think everyone can agree to: smoking, drugs,
allergies, etc.  If you physically cannot live in the same quarters with
someone because they have / do something which causes physical discomfort. 

Rules of the Lease: pets, waterbeds, loud partying.  No trouble with the 
advertising renter here.  The landowner is the one responsible for the rules
set up in this category. 

The controversial set of issues is emotional compatibility: alcohol, food
types, cleanliness, and just plain opinions (including racism).  Is rooming
with a gay person a matter of opinion?  Is there further breakdown in the
opinion category into "right" and "wrong"?  That's a TOUGH one.  "Wrong" would
be when the company should not run the ad, "right" when they should.  

Anyone want to build on this?  I politically vote for allowing the advertiser's
sexual orientation to be mentioned, my natural impulse is keep orientation 
out of the company paper unless they have policy in place for 
non-discrimination in hiring, promotions, etc.

\bob

P.S.
It's not such a bad reason, wanting to let the person know up-front what the 
full situation would be.  I decided to handle that in my last roomate/housing 
hunt by discussing it openly during the interview.  That way I could tell 
up-front if the rejection was homophobic-based or not.  Salvages my 
personality from possible attack - it's the other guy who has the problems.
But then again, it worked on the first interview, so I never tested the theory 
fully...

P.P.S.
Why advertise in the company newsletter at all?  (Because it's free?)  And why 
mention sexual orientation, the heteros don't, do they?  (Then again hetero 
same-sex roommating isn't the same situation at all so they don't need to 
declare orientation).  

\bob	usenet: decwrl!dec-rhea!dec-vaxwrk!peterson
/\	arpa:	peterson%vaxwrk.DEC@decwrl.ARPA
	arpa: 	@decwrl.ARPA:peterson@vaxwrk.DEC
