No Comment about "Consenting Adult"
jdg@ncrcae.UUCP (Jim Griggers)
02/11/85
This posting is in response to Steve's concerns about TV's
"Consenting Adult". 

First of all,  this was a movie based on a BOOK.  "Consenting
Adult" was written in 1975 about the time period in the *1960's*.
Thats why things seemed to be a little out of date.  I think only
a few things were changed to bring the story into the 1980s (there
were other story changes, but these don't deal with the time period).
One change was the reference to AIDS and another dealt with the
bar room scuffle (originally the Stonewall riot).

I agree with you that TV seems to go out of its way to avoid
showing affection between two men.  I agree with you that the
characters they chose were "sanitized for your protection".  But
what do you expect from TV that gives us a view of reality such
as "Dukes of Hazzard" (sp?).  Maybe they really do drive that way in
Hollywood 8-).  I can't say that I look to TV for anything but
entertainment and certainly not for a look at reality.
I wish they (TV producers) would present a more modern view
of homosexuality, however.  But I am not holding my breath.

Lastly, I liked the show.  At least something on the subject
of homosexuality was aired.  There is such a vacuum on TV about
this subject that this show was a welcome relief.  However,  I
do agree with you that it could have been better.

-Jim Griggers
NCR Corp.

By the cold and religious we were taken in hand.
Shown how to feel good and told to feel bad.          -Pink Floyd

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdo@brunix.UUCP (Scott Oaks)
02/16/85
I too liked Consenting Adult.  Okay, it admittedly had some problems--
but given its persepective (that of the mother, not of Jeff) I thouht
that it worked pretty well for what it was trying to do.  SUre, we all know
that Jeff must have had a harder time working things out for himself and that
his role was not well-developed, but you can't do everything in two hours.  I
am still amazed that prime-time even tried.

I remember when Making Love first came out (no pun intended), a lot a people
compared it to the early Sidney Portier movies:  they too weren't terribly
realistic, presented easy-to-accept, squeaky-clean images, etc.  Consenting
Adult seems to be in this genre as well, which may be a stage through which
the entertainment media must pass (it seemed to be a stage for the Portier
movies, for example; the movies [if not TV] then went on to more realistic
portrayals of Black people after that [though they might be in retrograde
again]).  Perhaps it's sort of like aversion therapy--you have to get
straight people used to the fact that gay men touch before you get them
used to the fact that they kiss.

This last fact is somewhat unfortunate, but it seems to be the way things
work, and it seems as if that's what we have to work against.  But, however
tentative, this at least seems to be a start.
