Psychotic ex-lovers
schuster@Shasta.ARPA
05/01/85
OK, folks, I'm writing this for support.  I remember an article a few
months ago where someone (can't remember) was talking about an exlover
trying to blackmail him.  I am in the midst of a similar situation.

I am pretty out.  As a matter of fact, there is only one set of people
to whom I am not out (that matters).  My father specifically requested
that his parents not find out.  Lon (the psychotic) just (15 minutes
ago) threatened to send a few letters to them.

Background: We were going out from Dec 83 to May 84.  It was sort of a
relationship of convenience as I knew I was going to leave the area in
May, I hate LDR's, and I knew I wasn't that attached to him.  We
discussed this a number of times, and all seemed to be agreed upon.  By
May, it was plain that he was pretty much in love with me.  A pseudo
relationship continued through the summer until August, when I moved
cross-country.

From his past history (I knew a couple of his ex's) I knew that he
tended to lock the closet door when he broke up with someone, and that
breakups were pretty hateful.  I figured I had lucked out when the
worst that happenned to me was that a friend of his got nonstop
hatemail for a month for sleeping with me.

Well, all was well until a few days ago when he demanded that I send
back all the letters he had written me, saying that they had been
written with the belief that our relationship was much more than it was
and that he felt that I didn't deserve them anymore.  No, he didn't
want photocopies of the letters, nor did he want me to keep photocopies
of them.  So it wasn't a matter of him wanting the letters (as our
first conversation implied) but rather him wanting that I *not* have
them.

The thing is, since he is very much in the closet (now), I could do the
same to him (tit-for-tat is the best strategy in non-zero-sum games)
with much more damaging effects.  He really needs counseling, and
sought it once, but apparently he is not doing it anymore.

Of course I could end this all by photocopying the letters and sending
him the originals, but my tragic flaw is stubbornness.  As is his.  I
also must confess to a strong desire to pound him into the ground.  Does
anyone know exactly how much harassment constitutes legal harassment?

-- Jay Schuster ...!decvax!decwrl!shasta!schuster schuster@su-pescadero.arpa
