On the Road Again
levasseur@morgan.DEC
01/07/85
   I've mentioned it before; my s.o. and I parted compnay about 6 weeks
ago and I'm on my own again; not doing much right now except licking
emotional wounds and soul searching (egad! how could I have fallen for
such a turkey). In the two years we were together almost all of my 4
or 5 gay friends moved to other parts of the country so I'm back at
square one building a network. Before meeting the ex-s.o. I had a bunch
of friends who I ran around with; brunch, dinner parties, dancing etc.
   When I go out now, I'm usually alone and am finding out some inter-
esting (if not disturbing) things about how *solitary* people are treat-
ed. When I go out to eat, the host(ess) usually seats me somewhere in-
conspicuous (like behind the potted palm tree or by the kitchen). I had
brunch at Fritz (a Boston gay eatery/lounge) and the waiter kept avoid-
ing me until I called him over."Are you waiting for otheres?" he asked.
"No I'm by myself" I replied. He didn't come back for almost 20 minutes
and the service was pretty poor. I asked him what the problem was and
he said it was kinda strange that I was eating alone. All the other
tables were filled with groups of friends and men with their s.o.'s
which didn't help my mood. 
   I decided to go to Chaps (gay disco) for tea dance and was avoided
by everyone. The funny thing is that when I went with the s.o. or a
group of friends, everyone came out of the woodwork to introduce them-
selves "Wanna dance?", etc. It seems like a person is viewed as some
kind of emotional leper when they're alone. If you're surrounded by a 
group of commrades, then everyone's happy. I'm finding out it's a real
bitch to develope a new circle of friends. People tell me I should move
to Boston (where all the boys are) but the rents are above my means. The
town I live in has, I think, 2.5 gay men in it. Has anyone else run up
against a similar situation and what did you do about it. My own person-
al opinion is that you seldom meet new friends in bars and not being 23,
blonde, and cute myself, not many people greet me. Oh well, nuff said!

                                      Ray(lone wolf)Levasseur
