Valentine Day -- a unique gift
mf@cornell.UUCP (mf)
02/12/85
	Valentine Day is coming up.  For this day, those of you who are
lucky and happy enough to have a close friend, lover or loved one, will
give extra thought and effort on how to please their very special
friend.  Not that you don't think of him (or is it her) on other days,
but this one day (as well as birthdays and the like) is an occasion for
those who need it to break the routine and do the unexpected.  I would
like to suggest to you a unique way to celebrate it and show your best
side and deepest feelings to the person you like.

	Valentine Day will be just another day during which millions of
people will go one straving, suffering and dying all over the world.   A
very thoughtful elderly man, whom I was trying to convince (during a phonothon)
to contribute towards one of the relief organizations, said that one cannot
think all the time of all these people, there is just too much of this going
around everywhere, and that one should not act emotionally.  With much anguish
in his voice, he proceeded to refuse to give.

	Meanwhile, people die.  Meanwhile, you are going to act emotionally
on Valentine Day.  Why not do then the truly exceptional and outstanding, and
have that money you dedicated for a gift buy the best gift you can give--a
contribution to a relief agency.  Consider: otherwise, you would probably buy
a card, a flower, chocolates, all at exorbitant prices set to absorb your money
on this happy occasion.  Instead, why not write a note, in your own handwriting,
your own sincere words, to the person you love, and tell her (or is it him)
that, as a token of your love for her you contribute to help relieve some
suffering somewhere.  That it is a gift you are doing for and on behalf of both
of you.  This will tell her (or him) so much more about yourself, much more
than any words or cards or flowers, for generosity, compassion, thoughtfulness,
are really among the deepest qualities.  This will show how confident you are of
their love, that you are not afraid they might react in a petty manner at the
deprivation of yet another chocolate box.

	For those who have no one to give a Valentine present for, why not
give your gift to help these people?  This is a gift of life and love, and
you won't be really so lonely anymore. 

	There are many easy pretexts for not giving--accuse others of politi-
sation, of being incapable and inefficient, and so on.  But what do YOU do?
Remember: later is never.  They need you NOW.

	There are countless organisations one can give to, but here are a
couple which are unaffiliated:

    o   OXFAM, 115 Broadway, Boston, Mass 02116 (mark checks `Africa Crisis')

    o   United States Committee for Unicef, P.O.Box 3040, Grand Central
	Station, New-York, NY 10163

    o   American Red Cross African Famine Relief Campaign National Head-
	quarters, Washington, DC 20006.
