Drug kills alleged AIDS virus in bloodstream
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
02/09/85
On NPR's "All Things Considered":

Today in New York, the Scientists Institute for Public Information met
to gather all valid information on AIDS to give the press and insure
the accuracy of news coverage & public knowledge.  It was hoped that
such a conference and the gravity of the epidemic would overcome medical
rivalries between different research teams competing for the discovery
of the AIDS mechanism.  But as Mathilde Krim of the Sloan-Kettering
Institute said, hopes were dashed when Robert Gallo, discoverer of
HTLV-III refused, unable to find time in his schedule to attend.  The
fight to be first to break the AIDS puzzle has caused the creation of
three different names for the prospective AIDS pathogen: HTLV-III by
Gallo on the East Coast, ARV in San Francisco, & LAV in France.

Nevertheless, a French researcher, Jean Paul Chermont of the Pasteur
Institute, announced that two years ago he gave a drug he calls HP-23
to a French hemophiliac AIDS patient.  Two years later all trace of
HTLV-III is gone from the bloodstream of the patient who seems to
have fully recovered.  HP-23 has not been used on humans before, and
is unknown in the US.  It is chemically similar to the metal tungsten.
Chermont is now administering it to 34 AIDS patients.  However, the
drug can cause dangerous side effects in the blood system.

Apparently, HP-23 kills all of the alleged AIDS virus in the blood-
stream.  How does it work?  When the AIDS virus invades a cell, it
must immediately reproduce.  It does so by latching on to the cell's
genes.  HP-23 kills the virus by competing with it: it also latches
on to the cell's genes and thus prevents the virus from reproducing.
If the virus can't reproduce, it can't spread, & thus AIDS presumably
can't develop.

However, the scientists pointed out that the drug would not help
many AIDS patients in whom the disease is well-advanced: once the
immune system is destroyed, the virus often disappears, its damage
done.  Many AIDS patients reveal no trace of the virus.  Thus, the
drug would seem to benefit primarily pre- or early AIDS cases.

Nobel Laureate David Baltimore of MIT & others present also cautioned
people against expecting a vaccine to be forthcoming.  Vaccines typi-
cally take YEARS to develop and require much reserch & testing.
