Thanks Rich!
arndt@lymph.DEC
11/28/84
Ah, I am grateful that Rich Rosen doesn't agree with me.  It makes me think
that there IS life after college.

See his statements below in his reply:
> Naw, Brunson isn't Arndt in disguise. Arndt exhibited some degree of
> intelligence on occasion. He read journals and periodicals and impressed
> some of us with his facts and made others of us wonder why he reads so much
> about homosexuals.

If quoting random statistics and journals is to be thought of as evidence
of intelligence (or as evidence of having something reasonable to say), then
it's no wonder certain people get elected to high office.  Arndt may be
"flashy" in that he shows people the TRAPPINGS of intelligence and reason,
but if that alone gives the impression that he really IS intelligent or that
he actually has something important to say, then perhaps he's well suited to
go into advertising (or more likely propaganda).  Don't let people like Arndt
or Brunson or Bickford snow you.  Look what the Germans got when they fell for
it.  Look what we're getting.

If they produce random quotings of "authorities" instead of facts, if
they can't justify their own requests for justification by others, if the
sum and total of all their logic is a ridiculous emotional appeal designed to
make you believe notions that have no logical basis in fact, then just ignore
them.  Or else point them out for what they are.
-- ----------------------------------------------------
(I reply to Rich)
The people I quoted would laugh to hear him say that they had produced "random"
(does he know what the word means??) statistics and information vs "facts".

Perhaps if I had included information from CAR CARE or COUNTRY GARDENS he would
have a lame brain to stand on.  In any case where are HIS "facts" or quotes?
What DOES constitute legitimate use of journals and "facts".  I suspect that
which "fits".  What does constitute an "authority" for him?  After all, some of
those I quoted were from the gay side.

Oh look, LOOK.  He's bringing in HITLER!!!  

I couldn't make him look any sillier if I tried.  And that's saying something.
He has fulfilled my toast of "confusion to my enemies".

If the gay group in the net let him speak for them they are crazy.  He's 
another coffen nail.  I hope he stays around.  He fulfills my need,from time
to time, for an intellectual punching bag.  The trouble is, he's too easy - a
sort of intellectual whore.  

I don't feel sorry for him, he's old enough to know better.   He appears to 
know how to read, if not research and think.  At least Ron Rizzo (love ya Ron)
fished up Boswell.  Rosen's refried ideas, (can't really call them ideas) are
just nonsense!

Tell us Rich, what IS the proper use of journals and who ARE the right 
authorities to whom we should appeal?  Take any of my postings and go through
it and SHOW us why someone I quoted was not proper.  What IS a proper "fact"?

Well, keep smokin' Rich,

Ken Arndt
