IMPROPER CONDUCT & Cuban Communism
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
01/31/85
A book has been written on the subject of "guided tours" for visitors
to Marxist countries:

  Paul Hollander, POLITICAL PILGRIMS: TRAVELS OF WESTERN INTELLECTUALS
		  TO THE SOVIET UNION, CHINA, AND CUBA, 1928-1978 (Ox-
		  ford University Press, 1981)

According to a Letter in the 1/26/85 Gay Community News (Boston), the
book

	relates the systematic deception of travelers and their eager-
	ness to believe smiling, glad-handing officials who peddle a
	beguiling optimistic line.

The subject remains relevant.  China is still an object of myopia among
many Americans, including those not at all left-of-center (even society
matrons seem to have kind thoughts about the PRC).

Complete hypocrisy often prevails in the publicity that revolutionary 
Marxist regimes issue.  For example, as the GCN letter-writer states:

	The Cuban government will tell liberals that it is trying to
	educate the public to tolerate gays while its official weekly
	BOHEMIA runs an article on homosexuality in the United States
	that for its lies and hostility makes the radical right look
	fairly tame.

As for Nicaragua, 

	The notion that the Communist Party [in Nicaragua] represents
	a powerless extreme while the Sandinistas are moderates is a
	sham too palpable to take many people in, one hopes; the
	speeches & documents of the Sandinistas show that their goal
	is a regimented, Cuba-like state.

I'm not in a position to comment on this last remark; I'll remind netters
that the main opposition candidate & party, the only ones with a realistic
chance of outpolling the Sandinistas in an election, were physically coerced
out of the campaign last summer.  The Sandinistas armed bands of youths
with clubs and metal pipes.  The youths followed and surrounded the rival
candidates whenever they tried to campaign in the countryside, physically
preventing them from making contact with voters.  After this happened
repeatedly, the candidates and their party withdrew from the campaign &
election: the situation was impossible.  Thus, the November election was
open, orderly, without compulsion or corruption, but it was an utter sham.

A visit to Nicaragua by gay Boston City Councilor David Scondras was marked
by the only gay person whom Scondras met trying to tell the councilor that
things weren't good.  See the 12/1/85 GCN for details.


						Regards,
						Ron Rizzo


"The people united will never be defeated.  The truth shall make you
 free.  Is there a conflict here?"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

