Reverse Discrimination in the Arts
greg@olivej.UUCP (Greg Paley)
11/28/84
I know that a certain number of articles never reach our
sight, so this may be repetitive.  So far I've seen a number
of discussions about discrimination against gays in the
work force.  I have not seen any discussion of what has
appeared to me to be a rapidly increasing reverse
discrimination in the performing arts.  Instances I've heard
of first-hand (from straight friends who've been turned down
for jobs or from gays who've witnessed the rejection of
straight job applicants) have been in the fields of theatre,
dance, musical comedy, and opera.

At this point it seems more evident in administration and
staff positions than onstage.  There are, of course, cases
to be dismissed as "sour grapes" from would-be "stars" who
whine that the only reason they weren't cast for a particular
role was because they weren't gay whereas the fact was that
they were simply inadequate.  I do know, however, of at
least one "straight" tenor who has turned down for a production
of Benjamin Britten's "Peter Grimes" because he was told that
"a straight man couldn't possibly have the sensitivity" to
do the part.

I have, moreover, heard more credible stories from people who 
either have applied for jobs or been removed from a current job 
in the San Francisco Opera staff (ranging from high-level 
administration down to the box office) to be replaced by 
someone with less ability and experience who happened to be 
gay.  The most visible example in San Francisco is a gay 
conductor who has a permanent position in the opera company 
but whose total lack of ability as a conductor has been embarrassing in
performance to the point of inciting strike threats from the
orchestra.

Similar incidents are apparently coming up in the Metropolitan
Opera in New York, the American Conservatory Theatre in San
Francisco, and numerous ballet companies.  

My wife and I, having been once active as singers, have a number
of gay friends in various performing fields.  With few exceptions,
when I've brought up this subject with them, they have admitted
that they saw the same thing happening.  A few feel genuinely
concerned that it's causing a blockade to genuine talent, and
are afraid that this may lead to an eventual backlash.  Many
others, though, shrug their shoulders and say, one way or
another, "well, we have to have SOMEPLACE of our own".

I should say that, personally, my only concern is that I hate
seeing more boundaries and walls set up, regardless of who is
constructing them.

	- Greg Paley

-----------------------------------------------------------------

