A Tour Of Sorts
levasseur@morgan.DEC
01/09/85
              Jason's Guided Tour of Gay Diversions
              =====================================

  Ole Jason has rounded up a lot of pen/keyboard buddies on the net
and a lot ask me what gay life is like up here in the frozen north.
I'll tell you a lot of things that Bob Damron doesn't have the time
to in my little romp through gay diversions in Beantown and surr-
ounds. I'll start with Boston (one of my all time favorite cities)
then we can work our way out into the more remote parts of gaydom.
 
  Boston is a rather small city in comparison to some of the new sun-
belt cities in the Southwest. You can walk from one end of the city
to the other in a fairly short time. This is highly recommended to
taking a taxi. Boston cabbies are rude and will take the unsuspect-
ing tourist 27 blocks out of the way to his destination; 5 blocks
from where he caught the cab. Here are some of the diversions that
Boston and the burbs have to offer the visiting gay man on a tank or
less of gas.


Chaps- Reputed to be one of Boston's hottest dance/cruise bars. It
       lurks in the shadow of the Copley PLace complex. They recently
       redecorated the bar again for the 137th time. The music's hot
       the men are hotter. For the brave; remove your shirt, hoot it
       up on the dance floor and exchange sweat with all the other
       hunks. For the more timid; stand outside the bar and peek
       through the windows.

Buddies- Around the corner from Chaps. This is a basement bar and one
       prerequisite to get in is to allow yourself to be blindfolded.
       You're then asked to find the fire exits. Hot music and very
       preppy crowd. You can hear them squeak as they walk by they're
       so clean. A tractor trailer truck crashed into the building
       once and they left the tractor in the wall; this is where the
       dj booth is. Lots of neon and pretty faces. Wear your best des-
       igner jeans and LaCoste shirt. No one gets in the door unless
       he has an alligator or other wildlife creature on his shirt.

Fritz- In the infamous gay ghetto of the South End. Nice airy place
       which plays taped music and serves gay food (quiche, brunch,
       etc. All the Chapettes from Chaps come here after their feet
       get tired from dancing at Tea Dance. There's even a hotel up-
       stairs but we won't talk about that.

Eagle- Down the street from Fritz sits the Boston Eagle. A kind of nice
       bar which has the reputation of being a nasty leather/s.m. pal-
       ace. Actually the place is quite tame and brunch is served along
       with old Bogart films, etc. Wear your 501's and hankie.

Loft-  Boston's after hours bar. The place opens at 2am on the weekend
       and is within spitting distance of The Boston Police Department's
       Precinct 3. There's two floors one for dancing, the other for
       less honorable pursuits. Every hot guy who turned you down at all
       the other places can be found here after the bars close. The place
       gets raided when the B.P.D. get bored after a hard day of ticketing
       cars. Rumor has it you can see every imaginable sex act being per-
       formed live, by the patrons under the plastic palm tree. Not for
       the faint of heart or a place to bring Aunt Gertrude.

Lulu's-Boston's newest addition to gay nightlife. Was an old Jazz/Supper
       club, now a gay disco. Old Jason can't tell you much yet since I
       was the only customer there on the Sunday I went. The bartender
       was friendly though.

Sporters- A Boston institution. I think that when the city was incorporated
       Sporters opened. An easy place to miss since there aren't any mark-
       ings on the building. Just stand around Cambridge Street on a Sat-
       urday night and notice where all the good looking men are headed,
       of course if you follow the wrong one, he may be headed for Chaps;
       in that case go to Chaps, it's more interesting.

119 Merrimac- This place looks like the building is slated for demolition
       but lo and behold there's a gay cruise bar inside. Only been there
       twice myself but the natives seemed semi-friendly, a few winos and
       other interesting flora and fauna drop in from time to time. Wash
       your hands before leaving.

1270-  In the Fenway area. Foul balls from Fenway Park sometimes conk pat-
       rons on the head when the Red Sox are trying to lose the pennent.
       A very young crowd; so young that most still have their baby teeth
       and are accompanied by their parents. Three floors of pre-pubescent
       fun, plus the roof garden round out the 12. I shouldn't knock the
       place since it's where I came out while still cutting teeth. Two
       discos and a lounge.

Ramrod-Just a few doors down from the 1270 is the Boston Ramrod. Somtimes
       Ramrod patrons kidnap the children waiting in line to get into the 
       12 for experiments. Wear you most faded levis and remember to wear
       the correct colored hankie in the proper pocket. Pool table and 
       old movies are available for viewing on the wide screen tv. Don't
       let these leatherette queens fool you, most are ceiling dancers.
       Wear your helium heeled shoes.

Fens-  Omigosh! right down the street from the Ramrod and 12 are the not-
       orious Fens/Victory Gardens. This little plot of well trampled real
       estate boasts the world's tallest reeds. It is also a well known
       and dangerous cruising area. When the bars close, the bushes rustle
       and there is 24 hour a day cruising with no cover charge, except
       maybe your life. The area is patrolled by fag bashers and police.
       Glider pilots circle the area searching for updrafts from all the
       hot bodies in the bushes.

Napoleon- Another Boston institution. The Indians left Napoleon's to the
       settlers. Some of the original settlers are still there and sit
       around the piano singing. Napoleon is also known as "The Wrinkle
       Room" due to an older clientel downstairs. The downstairs bar has
       one piano to every patron. The upstairs is called Josephine's Dis-
       co and has a better mixture of age groups, good music and fairly
       friendly ambiance. It's a well kept, clean, low key elegant place.

Playland- In Boston's world famous, Combat Zone. George Lucas was going
       to film the bar scene for Star Wars here but found it stranger
       than fiction. Worth a visit if you're out for a few laughs and
       have a body guard. 

Jacques- Full of drag queens, hustlers and various other lifeforms. Bos-
       ton doesn't have the heart to rip the place down since it's been
       there so long. Use caution, wear gloves.

Haymarket- On the edge of the fabulous Combat Zone. Jason hasn't been
       there but reports from friends tell me it's just another bar.

Metro- Only gay on Sunday nights. It takes them the rest of the week to
       get over all the fairies partying it up. The place is huge and
       if you go with a lover, handcuff yourselves together; else you
       may get separated and never see each other again. Huge video
       screen, even bigger crowd! Plan your evening carefully if you
       go. Allow yourself at least a half hour to get from the dance
       floor to the bathroom; the place gets packed and really jumps.
       Mardi Gras lives every Sunday at Metro. Spit is right next door
       for the more punked out set.

Paradise- Across the river in Cambridge. This place is right on the MIT
       Campus. You can pick out a Paradise patron by the abnormally large
       cerebellum. Very intellectual crowd. Be prepared to discuss,"Why
       Is there air?" and the theory of relativity if you meet someone.
       I got picked up there one night and the guy wanted to get into a
       3 way with his Apple II-E. Really though a very friendly place
       on two floors. Bring your sliderule or programmable calculator.

   We now must get in our car, catch a bus or put out our thumbs to sam-
ple the gay bill of faire further out in the outback lands beyond the
golden beltway of route 128. Of course some of you might be gifted with
the ability to click your heels together 3 times and repeat, "There's
no place like P'Town". In no time flat the house comes down and crushes
a Portugeuse fisherman right in the middle of Commercial Street. The
P'Town Police will probably cite you for having an illegally parked
house. Things are really cramped down there. For the rest of us, it's
about a 3 hour drive from Boston.

P'Town- Where all good fairies go when they die, some bad ones go here
        too. The town is an all out assault on all five senses. Lots
        to do, eat, drink, buy and explore. I'll be brief since P'Town
        would take up 10 megabytes to describe at length. The town is
        actually a sleepy Portuguese fishing village during the off
        season. As soon as all the juices of Spring start flowing the
        fairies all flock, like lemmings, to this Disneyland for homo-
        philes. Tea Dance at the Boatslip is a must do on any gay tour-
        ist's agenda. Other bars of honorable mention are the "A" house
        and Backstreet. The streets are fun, the bars are fun, every-
        things fun. So many men and so little space to stuff them all
        in. Get the pecs and stomach in shape, bring your hottest pair
        of Speedo's and bring money, lot's of it. Plan to take an extra
        week off. You'll need it to go home and unwind after your vacat-
        ion here.

Ogunquit- In Maine (Uhhh yup!). A pretty little town in the southern part
        of the state. A big gay resort but much quieter than P'Town. A lot
        of men come here to de-compress their psyches after leaving P-Town.
        One dance bar, The Club, is ok but tame. Native Mainiacs don't
        like fairies, so be careful commrade! Ogunquit's about 90 minutes
        out of Boston.

Cranes- On your way back to Boston along route 95 stop at Cranes Beach. A
        really nice beach which charges a steep parking fee but is worth
        it for a carfull. About 1/2 to 3/4 mile down the beach is the gay
        area. If you can't find it you either need glasses, are a closet
        case or just came back from P'Town and don't want to look at an-
        other man for six months. There's miles of beaches and dunes to 
        play in. Be careful while in the dunes. People have gotten upset
        about sll the sex that goes on in the dunes. All the semen that
        had been spilled in the sand has changed the ecology of the beach
        The seagulls have developed large pectoral muscles and grown fac-
        ial hair from forraging around in the tainted sand. Rangers patrol
        the dunes in jeeps and high altitude spy planes take pictures. A
        nice place to go with friends. Bring a lunch and a 12 guage shot
        gun to keep away the Greenhead flies. These flies are an atomic
        mutation and are as big as a B1 Bombers. They have jaws that can
        bite a man's leg clean off. The flies make their appearance dur-
        ing mid-July, early-August.

Fantasy-When you leave Cranes Beach drop in at Fantasy's. It's in the same
        town (Ipswich) and sports a disco, 3 bars and restaurant. Young
        trendy crowd. Nice sound system and lights stolen from the movie
        set for the original Frankenstein.

DiRocco's- Warning this file contains extremely toxic material. DiRocco's
        is about 45 minutes North of Boston in Tyngsboro, Mass. The entire
        town of Tyngsboro was destroyed in an atomic waste accident, only
        DiRocco's was left intact. The building resembles an Elk's lodge
        or one of those little buildings they put up in New Mexican atom-
        ic test ranges. You'll know you're there on a Saturday night when
        you drive along the deserted road to an opening in the forrest
        filled with cars. The patrons all think they're New York material
        and strut around like their shit doesn't stink. Bring a machete
        along to cut through the attitude. A very cliquey, gossippy place
        where everyone knows everyone else's business. A meteorite fell
        behind the bar and the owner put a swimming pool in the hole. The
        place bills itself as The Hottest Men's Bar North of Boston. This
        is because the original bar got torched years ago. I took a friend
        from Boston there once and he threatened to slap my face if I ever
        took him there again. Overpriced drinks, worth one visit.

   There are also a couple of other bars scattered around but I thought I'de
zero in on the high and low points. Massachusetts has gotten tough on gay
men having sex in rest areas and many now have gun emplacments or have been
turned into nuclear waste dumps. This is good in a way; if your lover comes
home and his sneakers are glowing pale blue, you'll know he's been in the
rest area again. There are also gay social, support, religeous and outdoor
groups for those not into the bar scene. Yes indeed,"Make it in Massachusetts" 
