AIDS: Reply from Craig Werner
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
01/08/85
	Feel free to post this, but I prefer to keep dialogues off the net
(I'm a 'r' not an 'f' man) since they sometimes degenerate into flaming.
	Some of this might make a good followup, but I also don't like
monologues and already posted something (a nice article with facts and
figures) and yes, you're right, 7000 haven't died, 7000 have been diagnosed.

	Concerning KS: it is just a tendency, it is after all an opportunistic
infection and therefore related to surroundings, and therefore the patients
one sees in Manhattan (primarily gay) and one sees here in the Bronx (IV)
tend to be different in regards to KS. It's a little stronger than that but
I don't think you can blame it all on the difference between the two boroughs.

	I don't read NY Native - they don't deliver to the Bronx, but
false negatives and positives occur with all tests. Immunoassays tend to be
very good. They also tend to improve with use, since better antigens are
found. According to Gallo, they've gotten the actual False Positives down 
to near nothing.
	There is another kind of False Positive however. 
	Remember, even if one comes out truely positive on the test, there is
still some debate on what that means. It either means:
	1) You have an active HTLV-3 infection and may get AIDS.
	2) You had an infection fought it off and are now naturally immunized
	  to AIDS
	3) You were exposed to it and now have antibodies to the virus.
and theoretically (or at least a few years down the line)
	4) You were vaccinated against it.

	I think I covered the issues of discrimination and abuse, albeitly
briefly, since I'm writing this as a net.med article primarily. Therefore,
you have to give me the benefit of point of view. I have seen dozens of
articles on the social aspects of AIDS but I'm not an expert on that. My
expertise is more in the scientific aspects of the disease. Both are 
important.

	Like I said, feel free to post this response if you think it actually
contains anything of public record and is just not an effort to defend 
myself.
