Brothers
sdo@brunix.UUCP (Scott Oaks)
10/05/84
[]

Does anyone watch the show Brothers, which is aired Thursday nights on
Showtime?  I have been able to see this show occassionally since it first
aired (whenever I can find someone who has cable) and though it is no
better than typical network sitcoms, it has at least a more interesting
premise:  it deals with the lives of three brothers, one of whom is gay.

Unfortunately, much of the characterization in this show tends to be
exaggerated and plots tend to be typically sitcom-ish.  But every now and
then an interesting line is developed; one such line developed last night.
The episode dealt with the youngest brother's new love:  a Russian wrestler
in the process of defecting.  This was the first time the other brothers
were actually confronted with tangible evidence of their brother's
homosexuality; until now it had been merely an intellectual process for
them.  Now, however, they had to deal with the fact that their brother
actually had a lover and with their brother, who they viewed as being
"blinded by love".

Anyway, one of the brothers (this would doubtless be easier if I remembered
their names, but unfortunately I don't, so you'll all just have to put up
with my convoluted syntax) was troubled enough by this to seek the advice
of one of the youngest brother's friends, who gave what I thought was an
extremely interesting and accurate assessment of the youngest brother's
actions.  The basic arguments was that the young brother had been denied
those adolescent experiences which straight people all are allowed to
share:  "Remember when you were in love with Annette Funicello and wanted
to tell the whole world.  Well, he's just now able to go through something
like that" was essentially how it ran (but not an exact quote).

I thought this was highly interesting and perceptive (especially after my
roommate had bemusedly remarked last week as I prepared to go out to dinner
that I was just like an 18-year-old going to a school dance) and
unfortunately indicitave of the state of modern society.  And the group of
people I watched the show with all agreed that they had felt something
similar to this when they first came out (and for a while afterwards, and
even still after many years, and . . . ).  And I was curious to know what
others thought about this:  how is/will be/was your life affected by this
"denial of adolsecent experience" (what a clinical phrase!).

Scott Oaks		"YOU were in love with Annette Funicello?"
			"No!  I was in love with Cubby!"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

jdg@ncrcae.UUCP (Jim Griggers)
11/02/84
For anyone who is interested,  the Showtime cable network will be
rebroadcasting the series "Brothers".  Having watched all 13 shows,
I was impressed with the way the subject of Cliff being gay was
presented.  I have not watched other sitcoms, so it would be hard
for me to make a comparison of "Brothers" to other shows.  However
I did find a number of episodes extremely funny.

I would be interested in what others think of this show.

					-Jim
ps. The rebroadcasts start the week of November 5th.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

jdg@ncrcae.UUCP (Jim Griggers)
11/09/84
I'm sorry, I was wrong.  I'm sorry, I was wrong.
I'm sorry, I was wrong.  I'm sorry, I was wrong.
I'm sorry, I was wrong.  I'm sorry, I was wrong.
I'm sorry, I was wrong.  I'm sorry, I was wrong.

The repeating of the series "Brothers" does not
start today (11/8/84).  I replayed my last video
tape and the announcer clearly said:  starting 
November 22, only on Showtime. (or something
like that)

			-Jim
