Some Thoughts
levasseur@morgan.DEC
11/13/84
  I only get mail from the various newsgroups in a daily batch. I've had
time to look over the last couple of days postings and have a couple of
comments.
  Jason is a pseudonym that I've used over the years in my writing. Let me
say that most of the subject matter I write about is serious; Jason on th
"Corporate Closet" was a break from my usual style. I do have a dozen or
so articles (some humorous, some not). I tend to gravitate toward the sci-
fi/fantasy genre and most of the stories have gay overtones. My roomate is
a writer and also has read the daily postings along with me. He suggested
that maybe I should query the group to see what kinds of articles they 
would want to see. I do have some more Jason to come; most of it on a more
serious note; breaking away from bad relationships, roomates, hobbies, alt-
ernatives to bars, etc.
  To one respondent I agree; Satire will always attract a lot of flames, as
will any other genre of writing. I'm sure Stephen King is flamed quite often
although I admire him as a writer. Since the Constitution grants me a right
to free speech, so it grants the right to rebuttle. I thank both the positive
as well as negative respondees since it will help tailor future efforts out-
side of this newsgroup to a broader audience.
  I agree with another person that it would be nice to have a gay only news
group where more casual conversations could take place as well as one for
political/morality discussions. I have attended many gay discussion groups
and am active in two at present. The one thing that they have in common is
their seriousness. Most of these people are still at the Stonewall Inn
fighting ghosts. I may be lucky; I don't know, but I've never had to put up
with discrimination in housing, church, work, family, etc ; even though all
these groups all know about my lifestyle (maybe that's why I can laugh).
  I have to admit that I was one of Jason's stereotypes but that was long
ago when I was still finding my identity. I think a lot of us go through
periods of promiscuity, femininity, or whatever other personal glitches there
are as we first test the water. What makes the difference is that we out-
grow the negative as we find out who we are. My best friend at 41, still
doesn't know who he is (as far as identity goes). He spends 6 nights a week
at the bars and complains that he doesn't have any outside interests. He
read Jason on hobbies and was thoroughly offended by it but said, "by all
means. Publish it!" Sometimes satire can be sobering; you can laugh, but
also be offended, especially if some nugget hits home. 
  In the future I'll be less offensive.

                                        Regards, Ray

  "Does your mother know you're here"
