Ronald Reagan's Homophobic Career: IV
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
10/30/84
The following is a blatant attempt to influence how you vote on November
6th.  It's addressed to all voters who think they may vote for Reagan,
but especially to closet Republicans, [Ll]ibertarians, and gay people.
(The views expressed herein are my own, & not those of my employer.)


			PART FOUR

Reagan has placed blatantly & aggressively homphobic people in high office
throughout the executive branch.  Here are just a few examples to indicate
the character of these appointees, government officials who routinely deal
with matters directly, even intimately, affecting gay Americans:

[From "US Civil Rights Director Attacks Gays", NYNative, p. 11, 4/23-5/6/84]

Reagan appointee Linda Chavez, Staff Director of the U.S. Civil Rights Com-
mission, was interviewed in the March FAMILY PROTECTION REPORT, published
by the far right Free Congress Foundation as a support newsletter for the
Family Protection Act.  She's against extending civil rights protection to
gay people and urges them to stay closeted.  By insisting on civil rights
protections, Chavez believes "the homosexual rights movement has really
damaged what ought to be the privacy of homosexuals.  When you begin to
try & make it simply a matter of choice between taste [sic.], then you
really are--you're really taking the [sic.] public morality & flaunting 
it in a way that most people won't abide."

She continued:  "what you are [sic.] really doing was inviting public scorn
& also public persecution, when you attempted to make these issues a matter
of public debate....I have very strong reservations about including sexual
preference as one of the so-called protected classes.  I think that distinc-
tions based on gender ought to be protected because those are invidious dis-
tinctions when it comes to employment, but preference is not the same thing
& it certainly is not the same thing as race or religion.  &, I have very
strong reservations about expanding civil rights laws to include protections
for those whose so-called life styles are different from the majority."
[Sound familiar, netters?]

At this point, it should be mentioned that Chavez's agency is "now the 
target of an effort to `defund' its programs by denying it a congressional
appropriation.  That effort is supported by leaders of the Congressional
Black Caucus, Women's Caucus, & Hispanic Caucus..."

Chavez was editor of AMERICAN EDUCATOR, & approved the opinion expressed
in an article on gay teachers by William Bennett (Reagan's appointed chair-
man for the National Endowment for the Humanities; the ironies here are
rich; see below) which she published: Bennett recommended that gay teachers
stay in the closet.  Said Chavez:  "Essentially, the position he came out
with was, I think, a very reasonable one.  You don't want to suggest that
homosexuals ought to be persecuted.  The question is really in some ways
a matter of how homosexuals themselves approach the issue.  Surely, every-
one can remember experiences as a child in school, remembering this or that
teacher, one that you thought perhaps was a homosexual.  But it's one thing
[sic.] to have a teacher that believes that he or she has the right to come 
in & promote homosexuality as a very viable alternative to heterosexuality."

Remember, this is a federal official speaking, one expected to be well 
educated in the law, highly skilled in marshalling evidence & arguing 
cases, with an special sensitivity to civil rights & minority issues,
not mention the US Constitution & Bill of Rights.

[From "Jerry Falwell To Join Anti-gay Program, NYNative, p. 11, 4/23-5/6/84]

Reagan officials have repeatedly participated in events sponsored by far-
right groups.  Just before the Democratic Convention this summer, a con-
ference on the "threat of homosexuality" co-sponsored by the Moral Majority
was held in San Francisco.  Besides Jerry Falwell, Phyllis Schlafly, & TV
preacher Pat Robertson, speakers included two Reagan appointees:

	William Bennett, chairman of the National Endowment for the Humani-
	ties;  according to the NYNative, he believes that "visible gay
	people `flaunt' their lifestyles in a manner that makes persecution
	understandable".  [Note that the New Right uses "flaunt" in a way
	basically different from gay slang:  they mean "have it known",
	ie, that one is gay, & not "to display ostentatiously or impudently"
	(W9NCD).  They're opposed to ANY public acknowledgment that homo-
	sexuality exists, either collectively or in individual behavior.]

	Alfred Regnery, who heads the Juvenile Justice programs of the
	Justice Department, earned congressional criticism this year
	"for dispensing grants to New Right-affiliated researchers
	proposing to eliminate homosexuality by imposing censorship
	programs on pornography.  ($800,000 was granted to study the
	`biophysical' & `chemical' links between reading magazines
	such as PLAYBOY & HUSTLER & incidences of divorce, incest, &
	homosexuality.)"


						Cheers,
						Ron Rizzo


"Why, dahling!  The Left is what's left over, the Right is what's
 wrong, & the Middle-Of-The-Road is no place for a lady."

		    -- Electra Collage, Miss Ballot-box of 1947
		       Washington, AC/DC

-----------------------------------------------------------------

medin@ucbvax.ARPA (Milo Medin)
11/01/84
Sigh.  One more point.  I dont buy this protected class stuff.  I dont
care about whether you are talking about women, blacks, homosexuals
or whatever.  Affirmative action is pure discrimination, reverse
discrimination yes, but discrimination still.  I was always
taught 2 wrongs dont make a right.  I still believe that.
Too many people are outraging people who believe as I do
by demanding 'special' protection.  Take it from mme, when
you talk about stuff like that people think you are trying
to force your views on them (and you are).  So why should
you be surprised when people come out with strident attacks on
'protective' legislation?  You are confusing (and many times the
people who are angry are confusing) homosexual 'civil rights'
with the persons right to be a homosexual.  Demanding special
treatment always strengthens prejudice among the people
who dont agree with you.  Its that way with blacks and its the same for
you as well.  I know people who will look at the application of
a minority applicant, see that he recieved special treatment and
write him off, because they believe he cant cut it.  If he could,
he wouldnt have gotten special treatment in the first place.
Remember the Mary Cunningham affair?  She is an extremely capable
woman, but people thought she got special treatment because she
and Agee were very close.  People brand you because everyone
has had an experience when they have seen an incompetent 
hired on special programs.  And people remember this and 
'get even' later on in their career.  Affirmative action is
counterproductive, it only strengthens prejudice, and while
serving to 'equalize' things at the lower levels, only
breeds animosty and antagonism in the upper managment.
At least thats the way I call it.  I am for a colorblind
meritocracy.  When a person makes it by himself with no special
aid, he gains the respect of all those around him.  And its respect thats the key to
true equality in society, not legislative fiat and the use of
coercion.



					Milo
