FYI-to .kids after Jym's paranoia
arndt@lymph.DEC
10/11/84
**Oh no!  I knew I should have posted the articles separately!  I apologize to
net.kids for the intrusion by a paranoid from motss!

      He says:
	Ken Arndt recently sent an article to net.kids and net.motss referring
to a child abuse pamphlet one can get.  It's thoughtful of him to post the
reference, but one wonders about his motives for sending it to net.motss.

      **My ONLY motive was to inform, not to draw conclusions.  His WHOLE
conclusion rests soley on the fact that I posted both nets at the same time,
and net.kids saw the motss routing.

        For your information on net.kids I have posted several articles to
motss asking how they feel about the Rene Guyon Society and the North American
Man/Boy Love Association who want legal sexual access to our children!  You
will be happy to learn that most if not all of motss is against them.  Of 
course for even bringing the subject up and asking if they agree with those
groups or stand against them I have taken abuse. (I've given abuse too!)
I very clearly said several times that I do NOT believe that all homosexuals
are child abusers, only that the public has trouble making that distinction
given the children who appear in Gay Rights marches with signs urging their
right to sex with adults, etc.  But some, not all as Jym Dyer would lead you
to believe, feel that my disclaimers are gratituous. 

      Jym says:
	Most subscribers to net.motss would probably agree that it's yet ano-
ther attempt on Ken's part to paint homosexuals and child molesters with the
same brush.

   *** I do not equate child abuse solely with homosexuals!  Only some
homosexuals are child abusers.

      Jym says:
	So, net.kids subscribers, don't be misled by the Ken's implications.
The fact is that most child molesters are heterosexual, probably because most
people are heterosexual.  The best way to protect your child is to look at the
situation realistically.
	'Nuff said.
		<_Jym_>

    **** Jym, don't ask straight parents to do that.  You might not like what
the answer is.  
         Big implications!  Two groups in the same heading.  Notice my title.
It was something you can do!!  I have asked the homosexuals what do they 
propose to do about the public's concern about homosexual groups wanting to
change the laws and got really no answer other than 'it's not my problem'.
Well, here is the kind of action one can take to help children resist advances
by molesters.  Useful information for all the straights who read motss as well.
       
I promise I won't post to both these nets again.  Under the same heading.

Regards,

Ken Arndt

-----------------------------------------------------------------

