San Fransisco!!
vause@ncrcae.UUCP (Sam Vause)
09/25/84
Greetings to all out there in the real world!  I have not really contributed to
this newsgroup in the recent past (or in the ancient past, either!), so I felt 
that it was TIME.  I have been following the events and discussions (disgustionsmaybe) here in this group with a great deal of self-examination;  I do not think
that I will even comment on Mr. Arndt's spiels of late, except to note that I
cannot agree with him on many points.  I agree with the premise that to ignore
such entries means that they will wither from lack of response.  I hope so.

On to more interesting topics.  Several friends and myself have recently 
returned to South Carolina from a relaxing (HAH!!) trip to San Francisco and the
Napa/Sonoma Valley Regions, along with the highly-touted Russian River area
of Northern California.  I cannot recommend this area of our great country
highly enough.  Such a time we had!

We stayed at the Atherton Hotel on Ellis Street, near Polk Street.  I have
been there many times in the past year, and have always found it to be a total
pleasure because of the exceptionally friendly people (say Hi! to Mark behind
the bar after 7:00P and Ann at the front desk!) and the clean, maintained
facilities.  The rates are certainly reasonable, and a variety of rooming
arrangements are available.  They have a toll-free number, so give them a call!

San Fransisco has so many interesting places to visit that it is not possible to
mention them all.  I can only recommend a few places that I have been to; make
sure that you get a guide to the city before you plan to spend any time there.

I really recommend the Chinese restaurant "Hunan Shaolin on Polk"; even though 
it is not in the Chinatown area, the food cannot be described, and the prices
are low, even for San Fransisco!  Be sure to also try the "Casa de Crista"
which is on the back side of "PS", also on Polk Street.  It is your best 
interests to obtain a map of the Public Transportation Services; parking is
always at a premium, and can be expensive (especially if you don't keep the
parking meter fed on time...).  

Try to visit the Golden Gate Park, the Palace of the Legion of Honor,
Golden Gate Bridge (worth walking over if you have a jacket!), the Financial
District, the Castro Street District, Fisherman's Wharf, Ghiradelli Square,
Alcatraz, and any other place that you've heard about.  Make time for a cruise
on the Bay, too!

It will be worth your time to obtain a copy of the Bob Damron's Address Book.
If you can't find one before you get to the city, try Headlines on Polk Street
or on 18th Street in the Castro District.  This guide will detail most of the
places that gay persons will want to especially see.  

We spent three days at Fife's in the Russian River area north of San Fransisco.
The primary town is Guernville; there are many attractions that you will want to
make time to see.  F.Korbel Wineries is tops on my list, but since this IS the
Sonoma Valley, you are certainly presented with a long list of places to see.
Try to walk through the Muir Woods Park and the Armstrong Woods National Park
since the redwoods are simply unbelievable in stature and grandeur.  One may
truely spend several days in these woods without becoming tired of all the
trees.  Hiking is good here, too.  Horses are available generally.

I expect to see more individuals making positive contributions to the net.motss
group; I hope to fulfill this myself if I can stay in town more in the future.
Keep up the traffic!

	** To the past, yes; to the future, amen! **



				Sam Vause
				NCR Corporation
				E&M-Columbia
				Columbia, SC

Standard Disclaimer:  My expressions or opinions do not reflect the positions
			of my employer; nor should they be so construed.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

