More final observations
ted@teldata.UUCP
08/28/84
******************************
I am back for a day to train my replacement and I had a chance to read
some of the replies to my observations. I am sorry I could not have posted
those observations sooner so there would a chance for rebuttal and discussion

My complaint was about the hypocrosy of the gay or feminist attitudes I
mentioned.  I don't think there is anything in my statement to indicate
any bigotry on my part towards gays, feminists, or anyone else.  Sophie's
inferrence is that since I object to the bigotry backlash from gays or
feminists that I am bigotted against these groups.  That is absolutely
not true.  She is practicing such bigotry by making that assumption.
If I agree with the feminist movement in general but disagree on one
particular point or method, does that mean I am against the whole group
and a bigot too?  I do listen to the ideas of others and will change my mind
if the evidence warrents it.

Steve, your reaction is exactly what I am complaining about, any criticism,
even a slight criticism, brands the critic as a raving bigot who probably
burns crosses in his spare time.  The movements I mentioned are asking for
equality, acceptance, and understanding but some of the members of those
movements are not willing to reciprocate to any degree.  Instead of running
of at the mouth when you hear a contrary point of view, stop and consider
for a moment what was said and then make counter points.  Why should my
statements wound you so deeply?  The only wounds I have are those of being
falsely accused.  Have you ever thought that a general comment may not
apply to you directly?  That smacks of adolescent self conciousness.

Matt suggests that it is not safe to generalize based on a limited sample
and agree wholeheartedly, but my comments where based on my experience on
the net and applied to people on the net.

I cannot resist expounding some more on my view of immaturity as it appears
on the net.  Let me ask a couple of questions.  Why do some people fly off
the handle at any or every statement that is contrary to their views?  Why do
some people insist on calling their opponents names?  Is this not immature?

I can admit to being wrong and somewhat immature (even at age 41).  I also
admit to not taking a most of the traffic on the net too seriously and to
being a bit of a rabble rouser.

A bigot I am not.  My judgements of people are based on knowing them and
how they think and act not any one charctoristic.  The most repulsive thing
to me is people who love football and insist upon boring me with the details
of Sundays game even after I have expressed disinterest.

I don't care how much you argue against it, being gay is abnormal, and is
caused by environment, or society or whatever and is not a congenital
condition.  You are not or cannot be born gay, some influence in your life
made you that way.  It's much the same as prefering brunettes over redheads.
This is not to say being gay is wrong or undesirable, or that this is a
treatable disease, or that gays should be subject to any discrimination, but
neither are they entitled to any exclusive rights.  I suppose this view
makes me a bigot, but I contend it does not because it does not affect the
way I treat gay people.  If you were come in contact with me socially or
professionally you would not find my actions toward you to be bigotted and
would probably find me to be supportive.

My final analysis of the net is that a good 25% to 30% of the news groups
are a total waste of expensive resources.  And some of you will delight in
pointing to this submittal as evidence of that.  Its been fun but I won't
miss it.
