Like *Flamesville*, Man.
brunson@usfbobo.UUCP (David Brunson)
09/18/84
[]

There have been some downright nasty responses to a couple
of articles that I posted recently.  One person sent email
with all sorts of unspeakable personal attacks.  As far as
I know, all these are completely unwarranted.  I don't think
I have ever directed personally insulting remarks to anyone
in my brief (and very enjoyable) net career.  Correct me if
I'm wrong BUT PROVIDE EXAMPLES!!!

There were, however, a few marginal phrases/terms that I would
like to address now.

Firstly, in a response titled "Re: Some Questions", I used the
term "filthy people".  This was (and is) in no way intended to
be a slur against people.  The use I had in mind was something
like this:  a person who farms is called a "farmer", a person
who loves is called a "loving person" (*not* "lover" -- this has
an entirely different connotation), and a person who practices
filthiness could be called a "filthy person".

In retrospect I realize that "filthy people" looks like a put down.
In no way do I intend to suggest that *persons who practice
filthiness* (in this case homosexuals) are without the love of
God or incapable of breaking with filthiness (*repenting*).
Homosexuals can certainly repent (in which case they would no
longer be homosexuals) and attain to the same measure of prosperity
and dignity as anyone else who loves God with his whole heart.

Let me now repeat the offending paragraph with the necessary
correction.  Let me know if there are any other problems.

>Until that wonderful day, however, conscientious citizens should
>do all they can to prevent persons who practice filthiness from
>gaining power in government, forcing employers to hire them, or
>bringing economic sanctions via legislation against those who
>would discriminate against them in business.

Note that this paragraph in no way suggests that people should
be turned out on the street hungry, penniless, pitilessly oppressed
by the *mighty Christians*.  Rather, it states that the right of
citizens to hire whomever they desire (allowing recognized *legitimate*
minority protection) should not be infringed upon.

In a second article titled "Re: Christianity, Sex", I wrote the
following oft-quoted paragraph:

>If you don't agree that fornication and discipleship are incompatible,
>then you have been eating too much cabbage.  Period.

While this is certainly true, it is a bit unnecessarily harsh.  Again
it was not intended to be a personal attack against anyone.  I apologize
to anyone who took it personally and I refer the interested student to
Paul Dubuc's response to the same article for an example of a much
more gracious approach.

--
David Brunson

"Do you think I have come to bring peace to the world?"
