To be or not to be
frye@bbncca.ARPA (Roger E. Frye)
08/14/84
Here's some of what I know about whether people choose to be gay.

First some general impressions.  Most of the gays I have met have known they
were gay since childhood, and many of them since before puberty.  Many of them
made a choice to be straight, but just couldn't stand living the lie.  I know
several women who made a political choice to be gay; when I ask them about it
now, they tell me always knew they were gay; they just had to go through a
stage of choosing to act on it.

Now me.  I have consciously chosen to nurture the gay side of my nature.

I always used to think of myself as heterosexual.  My first sexual experience,
at age 11, was with a man.  I chose to do it because he offered to teach me how
to masturbate, and I was eager for any kind of sexual experience and I didn't
mind too much that it was with a man.  (That's the level at which I experience
nonchoice -- the lifelong assumption that sex with men will do in a pinch.)
Then there was the kid who always forgot his sleeping bag in boy scouts who I
chose to sleep with.  Then there was once with another boyfriend.  Then there
was the night at a bar when I chose to let a man take me home.  That's the sum
of my genital and orgasmic contacts with other people until I was 21.

All this time, though, I was pursuing women like crazy.  I was just so eager,
and yet so understanding and gentle, that I never got anywhere with the girls I
dated and loved.  Well, after that drunken night, I went through an identity
crisis.  It seemed obvious that I must be really be a HOMOSEXUAL!  Even though
I had never fantasized about men.  Even though I constantly dreamed of sex with
women.  Because I always ended up having sex with men and not having sex with
women.  I was so scared at the idea that I might not really know myself that
the next thing I did was to manipulate a woman into having sex with me.
Surprise!  I really did like it as much as I thought I would.  Saved!  I was
straight!

And when I met a woman I loved who shared sex with me, I got married and had
children and had affairs and got divorced and fell in love with another woman
and had more sex, and I could have lived happily hetero forever.

Except that I have a lot of lesbian and gay friends, and I have gotten into gay
politics, and I do volunteer work for a gay newspaper, and I've never had too
much sex in my life, so I've chosen to have sex with men again.  I still prefer
women.  I still fantasize about women (even in order to have orgasms with men).
It's just that I can't see passing up opportunities for sex just because it's
with another man.  And surprise, I'm liking it more and more as I do it.

Maybe someday I'll get to the stage where I always knew I was gay.

In summary, I don't know many people who chose to feel attracted to members of
one sex or the other, but I did.  I recommend it to you.

-Roger Frye

-----------------------------------------------------------------

