Richard Johnson: Let's talk Apple to Apple!
arndt@apple.DEC
09/24/84
What is the entire homosexual community going to do about pedophiles ?
This assertion is about as ludicrous as asking the entire black community
of the United States to "do" something about the Zebra killings in SF,
that idiot who called Judiasm a "gutter religion", and any other persons
who commit unusual acts and happen to be black. And, the heterosexual
community has its share of pedophiles, too - do you intend to "do" something
about that ? Why do you believe that the majority of pedophiles are gay ?
I saw "Silent Shame" also and it was mostly about straights. Really, Ken,
for someone who usually garners respect from this phosphor, you have gone a
bit too far. Comments ?

Richard Johnson


          > Need you ask if I have comments!  

            Zebra killings are what a handful of blacks did - agreed.
            Child abuse is what a minority of homosexuals do - agreed.
                                         
            Now, watch closely, because I also agree that this may sound 
            like convoluted reasoning and is pretty hard to get a handle on - 
            hard to quantify.  I don't think your point about blacks and
            homosexuals being analogous fits in this case, because blacks 
            by and large have won their battle for acceptance, their moral
            case anyway.  I think that very few, on hearing of the Zebra
            killings would say "isn't that just like blacks?".  Indeed,  
            that was your point, wasn't it.  The question is, have the
            homosexuals gained acceptence as a rightful minority?  Even
            they say no.  Therefore, it seems to me that many if not most
            people, upon hearing of NAMBLA or the Rene Guyon Society WOULD
            link them with all homosexuals.  Witness the concern over
            allowing homosexual teachers!!  Now homosexuals say that they
            should not be viewed this way - you have heard their statements
            on this net vis a vis teaching.  Homosexuals may be right in
            their statements but I don't think that they have gotten the
            agreement of the majority of parents out there, do you?  Ergo,
            if access to the workplace, etc. is an issue the homosexual
            community still has some work to do.  See my recent posting
            (ignore the swamp gas he engenders from me) to Steve Dyer on
            this point.

            I never said that the "Silent Shame" T.V. show was strictly
            about homosexuals!!!  Only that it highlighted an interview
            with the Rene Guyon Society.  I referenced the show as another
            source of information about them.  I don't know where you got
            the idea that I believe child abuse is strickly or even mostly
            a homosexual issue!  
                  
            I just reread my posting on "chickenhawks" and I would like you
            to do the same.  My exact wording was: "Did anyone see the T.V.
            show 'Silent Shame'?  They MENTIONED (italics mine!!)
            chickenhawks."  I really don't see how you leap from that 
            statement to my saying it was a homosexual theme show and I
            believe, etc.

Well, thanks for your comments.  Any comments on my comments??

Keep chargin'

Ken Arndt

-----------------------------------------------------------------

richard@apple.UUCP (Richard Johnson)
10/01/84
[manges-moi]

Ken,
    Wherever did you get the idea that blacks have won their battle ? Just
because the legislation exists doesn't make them 100% free yet. I'm sure I
don't need to give you examples. But then, neither are *any* groups (I won't
use minorities here - the WASPs will soon be the minority) 100% free from the
primitive prejudices of Our Wonderful Country. You and I both know there is 
a white, predominantly male ruling class. Period. To what degree acceptance
is made shouldn't be an issue. Thirty years ago, blacks were in just about
as high favor as gays. If not worse, due to their visibility in the society.
Sure, they've paid their dues. We gave them no choice. Ditto homosexuals. 
Where is the logic in disputing another's right to LIVING AS THEY PLEASE, 
when your forebearers fought for the same thing ? If not you yourself ?
I could be wrong, but sometimes I think you still are stinging from your own
search for *whatever*, and want to make sure others have a tough time. 
Fuck this issue of genetics/hormones/choice/too much peanut butter before
age 13. WHATEVER HAPPENED TO JUST LIVING YOUR LIFE AS YOU PLEASE ? I don't
advocate messing with other people's lives, either. But then, I have told
a Baptist preacher to go fuck himself to his face for bothering me with his
paranoid convictions. 
     An analogy I read recently: Why can't homosexuality be like buying 
shoes ? Just because you don't like the shoes doesn't mean you run into
the shoe store and bludgeon the owner. I hear you on the AIDS issue and
promiscuity. I hear you on unsafe sexual practices in general, exclusive
of preferences. I hear you on pedophiles. But your arguement about 'we
still have to pay dues' (not any sort of quote) is falling on deaf ears.
I know that. What would you like to do to help ?

Richard Johnson                 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

