Almost banned in Boston!
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
09/17/84
For netters who come to Boston:

If you've ever attended parochial school or been curious about the exper-
ience, try to catch the American Repertory Theater production of Christo-
pher Durang's SISTER MARY IGNATIUS EXPLAINS IT ALL TO YOU at the Charles
Playhouse, 74 Warrenton Street, Boston (617-426-6912), starting  today,
September 17.  The play features Tony-nominee Elizabeth Franz in the title
role she made famous during the original NY production in 1981.

A group calling itself the Anti-Defamation Committee of the Massachusetts
Chapter of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights [sic.] (I
kid you not!) is protesting the run.  The play has been harassed by the
RCC across the country: in St. Louis the company was forced out of one
playhouse into another; in Detroit the archdiocese threatened to block
production and rather hysterically labeled the play "virulently anti-
Catholic".  The Boston Catholic group has fatuously tried to enlist B'nai
B'rith in its banning attempt.  Drama critic Kevin Kelly devotes his column
to the matter in today's (9/17/84) BOSTON GLOBE.

And all this denunciation of the stage from a church whose head (Karel
Wojtyla) is a former playright!

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncca.ARPA (Steve Dyer)
09/18/84
Incidentally, I managed to see "Sister Mary Ignatius" two weeks ago when I was
in S.F., with Cloris Leachman in the title role.  All in all, this is a
wonderfully funny but disturbing play, and required viewing for anyone who
enjoyed a Catholic education.  It is hardly anti-Catholic; but it IS a
send-up of your typical parochial school nun of the 50's and early 60's.
Perhaps these Catholic "anti-defamation" leagues are worried that the truth
(and 90% of Durang's dialogue could be taken VERBATIM out of my early classroom
years) is simply too embarassing.

I would be interested to know how the play comes across to non-Catholics,
not to mention non-Christians: a lot of the humor comes from this feeling
of shared experience.  
-- 
/Steve Dyer
{decvax,linus,ima}!bbncca!sdyer
sdyer@bbncca.ARPA
