Reply to Byron Howes
arndt@lymph.DEC
10/05/84
Where do I start??

Glad you said that my statement to the effect that Aids is "homosexually
vectored" is SOMEWHAT imprecise!  Because it's not imprecise by much if
at all.  "Intermingling of blood", yes but not from bumping into each other,
unless . . . (but I'm trying to change).  It's not the fact of transfusions
(the act) that causes Aids!  I get Aids from a carrier who donated blood.
The carriers are identified as . . . (fill in the blanks).  You seem to be
saying pouring blood causes Aids!  "Aids is transmitted through the inter-
mingling of blood supply as might happen with transfusion."

By the way, Aids is also transmitted through semen and some feel through
saliva.

What does "YOUR assertions notwithstanding, Aids is a potentially serious
problem to the entire population . . . " mean??  The point of my postings
was that very fact!!!

Where do you read my "smug assurance" of my own safety??

I see it was late when you posted so I can only assume you were down to
your last toke before you fell off your chair for the night.

Why would my "smugness" frighten you??

You do have a reason to be frightened.  Tonight on the NBC nightly noise
there was an extended (180 sec.- so it was a heavy topic) piece on children
with Aids.  About 70 so far, with hundreds more projected.  They highlighted
the problems of one little boy under sentence of death (are you SURE that
homosexuals are not responsible just a little - even those not promiscuous
but who fail to speak out against fellow gays who are?) who was rejected 
out of fear by the school system where the doctors said he was safe to go.
Administrators and parents freaked out.  NO way.  "I'll take my child out."

Hey, it's getting bigger by the minute.  You've got to do more than raise
funds, teach each other to check for sores first and man hotlines.  Hint:
You've got to speak to fellow gays about behavior patterns (which might
entail relooking at "lifestyles" ((baths, bars, etc.))).

How about looking at the "sexual revolution"?  Remember the young Aids
victim I quoted as saying, "We were told that sex was liberating and more
sex was more liberating."

Rich Johnson I believe it was, whines about, "what ever happened to 'do your
own thing?'"  It never was.  One person alone to the limits of nature but
not in a society.  That's the reason for government.  Laws.

Another, Gerber, asks "am I my brother (homosexual's) keeper?"  What a waste-
land if the answer to that is no!!

As Aids and it's cost get bigger the public is going to look for SCAPEGOATS!
Guess who?  Think all those nice pols are going to help you then?

So rather than marching with Sister Boom Boom and the Children's Crusade
you should be marching the other way!  Dump the freaks before they drag -:
you down with them.  Of course by dump them I mean their positions.

Hey, guess what.  There goes the last of the wine and I'm leaning over too
far to straighten up.  Hope my wife finds me in the morning.

Bye

Ken Arndt

-----------------------------------------------------------------

bch@mcnc.UUCP (Byron Howes)
10/06/84
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

