"Justifying" beliefs based on "western moral tradition"
rlr@pyuxn.UUCP (Rich Rosen)
08/13/84
> To advance your cause you appropriate
> moral language of the Western tradition and stand it on it's head.

> There is however, a public forum in which you had better be prepared with
> more than slogans and calls for keeping it all very polite.  You do yourselves
> no favors by merely asserting the line that you can't help being homosexual
> because the vast majority, I believe, do not buy that and will not buy that
> without some kind of data or cogent argument to back it up.

How does one alter a biased "morality" by using existing morality as a
reference?  Does one need to?  Does it matter?  Is morality just a popular
consensus?

Frankly, I'd be ashamed to have to use "western moral tradition" as the basis
for any of my beliefs.  This is the same morality that gave us the Spanish
Inquisition, the witch trials, the pogroms, virulent anti-Semitism and anti-
ANYTHINGism where that ANYTHING didn't fit in to its mold, and two bloody
world wars.  If *I* was asked to defend *my* beliefs based on western moral
tradition, I'd simply laugh and win the argument by forfeit.

As I mentioned in an earlier article, it would seem that the only way one
would be allowed to propose a change in the moral structure (vacuous as it may
be) is to 1) show that what you're proposing is already part of the moral
tradition, and 2) secure an eleven tenths majority of the voting body that
determines ultimate morality, be it popular consensus or secret conclave.

On "justifying" sexuality based on biological factors/personal choice:

> So where do we stand gang?  Is there any responsibity for sexual behavior?
> Heterosexual?  Homosexual?  

Again, does it matter.  Why is such a big deal made over this?  Do people
have to "justify" their sexuality?  Their personal beliefs?  Their tastes
in music?  Food?  To whom?  Why???????
-- 
It doesn't matter what you wear, just as long as you are there.
						Rich Rosen    pyuxn!rlr

-----------------------------------------------------------------

dgary@ecsvax.UUCP
08/15/84
< ... Quoting ... >

>From: rlr@pyuxn.UUCP Mon Aug 13 10:00:39 1984
>Frankly, I'd be ashamed to have to use "western moral tradition" as the basis
>for any of my beliefs.  This is the same morality that gave us the Spanish
>Inquisition, the witch trials, the pogroms, virulent anti-Semitism and anti-
>ANYTHINGism where that ANYTHING didn't fit in to its mold, and two bloody
>world wars.  If *I* was asked to defend *my* beliefs based on western moral
>tradition, I'd simply laugh and win the argument by forfeit.

I just wanted to interject a quick comment on this "western moral tradition,"
a phrase which has been of such comfort to the political right as a banner to
carry and to the left as a convenient target to lob catchphrases at.
There is, in fact, no single "western moral tradition."  There is
a collection of (often violently) competing traditions.  We have the
"Christian" system descended from the antisexual authoritarian teachings
of St. Paul (the person; no flames from Minnesota, please), some weak
fragments of pre-Paul Christian beliefs (Quakers probably come fairly
close, here), the Judaic tradition (incredibly influential in this
civilization despite the small number of Jews and the incredible
persecution they have faced), the Hellenic tradition (which John Stuart
Mill says is alone responsible for the notion that the government has an
obligation to promote the public wellbeing, for instance), and so on.

In fact, the very existence of inquisitions, world wars, persecutions, and
the like makes it obvious that strongly held and widely differing viewpoints
have often coexisted in this "western tradition."  The current crusade of
the Christian right against secular humanism is a direct descendant of
the traditional disagreement between near-Eastern mysticism and Greek
rationalist thought.

Finally, while I have no great desire to hold forth European civilisation
as a beacon of perfection, it is worth noting that ours is the only major
(note that qualification) civilization to treat women on a much higher
level than draft animals, to support the notion of democracy and human rights,
to provide a signficant amount of food and other aid to other cultures, and
so on.  This does not make up for colonialism, racism, or FORTRAN, but it
suggests our antecedents have not uniformly been monsters.

D Gary Grady
Duke University Computation Center, Durham, NC  27706
(919) 684-4146
USENET:  {decvax,ihnp4,akgua,etc.}!mcnc!ecsvax!dgary

-----------------------------------------------------------------

manis@ubc-vision.CDN (Vincent Manis)
08/16/84
Western moral tradition, anyone? I'll stand by it any time. Witch
Organization: UBC Vision, Vancouver, B.C., Canada
Lines: 25

trials and other monstrosities are certainly a part of our tradition,
but so too is an increasing understanding of the humanity of all 
people. Slavery is a reprehensible part of our heritage, but the
abolition of slavery is also a part of our tradition. By "W.M.T.",
anti-gay people generally mean a few random passages taken out of
context. Far too often, people throw out the babies and keep the
bathwater.
 
I'm suspicious of arguments based on "inherent sexuality". They
lead to all kinds of problems. For example, the United Church
of Canada recently rejected a proposal to permit the ordination
of open gays and lesbians. One argument that was advanced was
that the proposers had not done enough to prove that conversion
(aka cure) was impossible. Now, if one is really going to accept
various forms of sexuality on an equal plane, it makes little 
sense to say that same sex sexuality is ok because gays/lesbians
can't be "cured". 
 
We as a society have to learn to get past labelling. Neither homo-
nor heterosexuality is intrinsically good or bad; the value 
judgements should be attached to the ways in which we deal with
sexuality. I have yet to see any logically sensible argument
which really proves the inherent superiority of heterosexuality.
To find even "enlightened" people operating on this sort of 
unspoken, unquestioned assumption is discouraging.
