Does it really matter ?
marc@pyuxn.UUCP (M Schare)
08/05/84
Reguarding Ken Ardnt's last submission.. Does it really matter if GAYS 
(Alright Ken, I wont call them Homosexuals) are born, or made? Should
society think more of them if they are Gay, not by choice, but 
by something beyond their control ? Sounds pretty silly
to me, but:



Unfortunately, that is the way many people think. Society is more 
willing to accept gays if it is believed that they dont really want to 
be that way, but have no choice (i.e. gay = incurable sickness that 
must be lived with). Since many people now accept gays because 
of this belief, and since science hasn't and probably
never will come up with an answer on the subject, it might be 
in the best interest of gays to foster the belief. Enough 
Rambling. Im interested if people's opinions on 
whether gays are born "that way", or whether its a 
conscience decision. Any comments ?
-- 
Comin now to Eden.. Yea Brother.                Marc Schare (pyuxn!marc)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

schwab@iuvax.UUCP
08/06/84
Well, you can see my thoughts on this more fully as a response to
Ken Arndt's goodbye message above. I think it's irrelevant. If
research into the reasons for an individual exhibiting homosexual
behavior have shown anything, it is that there is no single cause or
single significant contributing factor. For any particular gay person,
there have probably been hundreds of complexly interrelated factors,
both biological and experiential, that contributed to being on the
homosexual end of the Kinsey scale. But again, so what. The same can
be said about heterosexuality.

I suppose that it is possible for a person to be experientially
motivated to make a conscious decision to be homosexual. I've never
met someone like that. I knew I was homosexual when I was 13 and the
anguish I suffered because of this realization and an overdose of
traditional Christian morality as a child make me believe there was
no conscious choice. I don't remember one and I am not masochistic
enough to have chosen that anguish. (Ken Arndt - the anguish was not
the result of homosexuality, but a deeply felt belief that it was
abhorrent. I got over it.) How many heterosexuals have made a conscious
choice to be heterosexual. Are we to picture 12-16 year olds sitting
in their bedrooms and thinking, "Well, should I be gay or straight.
I have to decide by next Thursday so I'll know whether to invite
John or Mary to the dance." Absurd.

David Schwab
...ihpn4!inuxc!iuvax!schwab
