An open letter to Ken Arndt
trb@masscomp.UUCP
08/04/84
This from Howard Hill ihu1e!howardh:
>Mr. Arndt:
>I recently read your submissions in net.motss and was amazed, disgusted,
>and disappointed by your submissions.  Such vituperation and profanity
>is something I prefer not to be exposed to.
>...
>I debated saving a number of your recent submissions and mailing
>them together with a cover letter to Mr. Olsen and other key people
>at DEC.  I decided against this because this would have an adverse
>effect on the entire USENET community at DEC.  However, you should
>be aware that someone else may do just this.
>...

I am far far far more offended by Howard Hill than I will ever be at
Ken Arndt.  Ken Arndt offers us his own ideas with his "vituperation
and profanity" (as Hill puts it).  Hill merely threatens Arndt with
real and underhanded threats.  I certainly can't recall any
contribution of note from Hill over these netwaves, and even if I
could, it's no excuse for his threat to screw Arndt.

I have, in earlier days, been both threatened and screwed by opponents
on both USENET and ARPANET.  In one case, abuse trickled down from Vice
Presidential level at BTL and WECo, VP level being five levels of
supervision up from me.  If you're going to be outspoken, it goes with
the territory.  Thank God it's just morons that bitch at managers
rather than assassination attempts.

It is, of course, often true that managers are not in tune with
the goings on of such forums as these, nor do they always share our
political interests, nor do they always care to defend freedom of
expression.  All they want is peace and quiet, not moral or
intellectual integrity.  Consider, moral and intellectual integrity
does not a powermonger make, nu?  In other words, it doesn't matter
whether Ken Arndt's opponent is right, it matters whether the opponent
wants to throw mud at DEC in order to quiet Arndt down.

Threats are particularly disgusting creations.  Low effort, high
annoyance; often very effective.  Let's say I don't like Howard Hill so
I call him in the night and threaten him or his house or his family.
Does it matter whether his opinion is good or beautiful?  No, it only
matters how much of a pain in the ass I feel like being.  I'm
surprised to see threats in this group, of all places.  So Arndt's
behavior is a little divergent.  I would think that came with this
territory.

If you're so damned right and you care so much, it should be trivial
to uncover Arndt for the fool he is by controverting his points right
here, if you think it's necessary.  I think his colors show without my
elucidation, so I don't post rebuttals.  Whining to his mommy shows
extremely low class.

I don't know Arndt, but I get the impression that he's the kind of
person who speaks up when he sees something wrong.  I'd rather have one
Arndt around than ten toadies spewing back the company line.  Too bad
most managers don't see the value in that.

I don't agree with most of Arndt's opinions, though I sometimes enjoy
reading them.  Mostly, I read them at 19.2K baud.  Sometimes though, he
hits the nail on the head, though often in a rather sarcastic way.

I'll take Ken Arndt, grossness and all.  If you guys want to ignore him
by not following up his netnews, be my guest.  I never followup to
Arndt's ravings.  But if you suggest that we take low blows at Arndt or
anyone else around here, I will hate your guts.  (There is very very
little in this world that will cause me to hate your guts.)

I'm not real impressed by all you supposedly open minded folks who are
calling for the slaughter of Ken Arndt.  And in particular, Howard Hill,
I spit in your face.  Now you can be disgusted at me too, you vermin.

	Andy Tannenbaum   Masscomp Inc  Westford MA   (617) 692-6200 x274

-----------------------------------------------------------------

