not that simple
alana@mhuxm.UUCP (whipple)
07/12/84
I'm not sure what prompted this article, but I will respond anyway,
according to standard USENET behaviour. :-)

As I understand Eirikur's article, the point is that sex roles are not
easily changed.  This is true.  One cannot simply decide to become another
person.  Eirikur discusses the difficulty of phasing them (or them phasing)
out of existence over generations.

>  Culture abhors a vacuum.  Courtship, (or a replacement protocol) has
>  to happen.  Kids have to be born, and wear designer jeans, watch too
>  much tv, eat junk food, etc, (or your local period/regional variants)
>  and then raise kids themselves.  This *has* to happen. 

Sure, kids will be born.  No matter how much having children goes out of
style, there will always tend to be an abundance of them, because
heterosexuals reproduce themselves.  (Why do you think they're called
'breeders'? :-)

But they don't '*have*' to participate in all the little rituals of their
respective societies.  All of the mind sets and biases and mores that people
grow up to believe as gospel is just so much mental baggage.  Life can
be very simple under all those assumptions, but it seems pretty boring
to me.  For everyone to believe alike makes a tedious world for everyone.
We should free ourselves from the constant pressure to conform.
("Goodbye, 'all this'")

But wouldn't this sort of thing destroy our cultural heritage and lead to
chaos?  In some cases, good riddance.  In other areas, we must be careful
to preserve what is worth preserving.

We certainly are in no danger of vacuum.  The world will change.  The
world will change not so much by things disappearing as by things being
replaced.  There is a struggle of ideas (memes, if you will).  Just consider
the abundance of viewpoints on the net :-).

It *is* difficult to transcend one's sexist upbringing.  What is the first
question asked about a newborn child?  'What is the gender?'  Why does this
matter?

>  I haven't ever seen a gay or lesbian relationship that did not *most of
>  the time* exhibit differential 'sex roles.'  They may swap or submerge,
>  but from what I've seen, they surface daily.

I don't doubt that even relationships between the most liberated souls of
the same gender continue to have vestiges of the sex roles that are pounded
into us from birth.  But I don't see how one could be more free of these
sex roles than by being other than heterosexual.  Gays go the farthest in
getting rid of these imposed roles.  

I have the impression that gay relationships have traditionally been
modelled on marriage.  I mean, *in the past*.  This results in all sorts
of butch/femme, active/passive roles.  Nowadays people are aware
enough not to fall into this trap.

Gee, this letter sounds very didactic.  I don't have any answers to It
All; I can just give my impressions.  I also don't mean to sound as if
there is a big Society out there that peeks thru our windows.

Darren Damman
mhuxm!alana

-----------------------------------------------------------------

