The New York March
brenner@aruba.DEC
06/29/84
Yes, Scott, I for one made it to the New York march, and I also would much 
rather talk about positive things like the march than add to the avalanche 
about morality (the other reason why I've been quiet this week; the main reason 
was that I was busy fighting the more mundane controversies of the job I get 
paid for!)

The NY march, like NY itself, was massive and gave me a wicked case of acute 
sensory overload. I mostly stayed with the student and alumni groups--Brown and 
Yale were particularly well represented, there was a smattering of people 
who came down from MIT and other Massachusetts schools, plus the NY alumnums 
(neologism created to avoid "alumni/ae" :-) ) of Harvard/Radcliffe. Plus many 
more.

The last time I did the NY march, a few years ago, it had started in the 
Village and finished some hours and several miles later in Central Park. For 
the past couple of years it's been run the opposite direction--some predictably 
diffuse objection by the powers-that-be about traffic congestion or some such. 
So we mustered in all the side streets adjoining Columbus Circle, stepped off 
at noon, swept past all the fancy hotels of Central Park South, and proceeded 
all the way down Fifth.

There was a definite political overtone to this march. From what I could piece 
together from hurried conversations, Koch and the Catholic archdiocese had very
recently gotten into a fight over a city directive against dealing with
agencies that discriminated against gay employees. The archdiocese said no way 
would they change their policies, Koch at first said okay, take your public 
service programs and leave, and then, as Hissoner is wont, backed down and said 
let's see what the courts have to say. (I am oversimplifying tremendously, at 
great risk of inaccuracy.) In any case, I saw the Dignity group break from the 
march to do some sort of action on the steps of St. Patrick's, but could not 
get close enough to see just what transpired. Before the march began, there 
were rumors that at a certain point there was going to be a sit-down protest of 
the situation (i.e., *the entire march* to halt and sit down for about ten 
minutes), but when I left at about 4:30 pm this still had not occurred.

I did a little exploring of the length of the parade, but the thing was too 
large for me to encompass. Was impressed by the huge turnout of the Dignity 
group, chanting and singing as they went. NGTF had a balloon-covered float. A 
large replica of the Staten Island Ferry :-) sailed by. Saw a couple of 
marching bands, with baton twirlers, and a mummers band complete with the crazy 
silver Mardi Gras costumes and wailing saxophones. Not to mention drag queens 
on and off roller skates, someone got up convincingly as Boy George, and all 
sorts of All-American New York gays and lesbians dressed in New York style. I 
felt underdressed.

I left at 4:30 because I had a five-hour drive yet to do that evening, so I did 
not get to see the rally at the end. Harvey Fierstein (of "Torch Song Trilogy") 
was to be a featured speaker, so I was disappointed. However, there was a human 
traffic jam in the Village as the parade crawled down Christopher Street, and I 
was too weary to fight my way through. As I said, acute sensory overload. All 
in all, it felt like a typical Manhattan experience to me--noisy, boisterous, 
draining, but fun. Next time I do this, I'm gonna stay overnight.

					Ellen Brenner
	
					...decvax!decwrl!rhea!aruba!brenner

-----------------------------------------------------------------

