We aren't that simple.
eirikur@amber.DEC (Eirikur Hallgrimsson)
07/10/84
     From  what  a lot of people are saying these days, I get the impression
that  many  think  that  sex  roles are simple stuff--costumes, physical and
emotional, and a little posturing. Like, maybe we could make them go away if
we  yanked  the  trappings,  and  waited a couple of generations.  I used to
believe this, and it *may* be true, but sex roles *evolved*, in the cultural
sense,  and  like most things that 'jest grew' they're horribly complicated,
and very well adapted.

     I don't think that they can be wished (or legislated) out of existence.
Because  they serve a need. Culture abhors a vacuum. (Shava Nerad, where are
you?)  Courtship, (or a replacement protocol) has to happen. Kids have to be
born,  and  wear  designer jeans, watch too much tv, eat junk food, etc, (or
your  local  period/regional  variants) and then raise kids themselves. This
*has*  to happen. (Dag Hammarskjold said something on the order of 'What has
to happen is going to happen.' I'll extend that to saying that there will be
a means.)

     Anyway,  the  point  of this article is that sex roles are deep-rooted,
primary  parts  of  humanity, (we have been discussing how hard it can be to
buck  them!).  They have to work in the general case. What if sex roles only
worked  for  a given sub-population? One generation later, their descendants
would  be  the  only  population. Hence, they work. They're ill fitting, and
hurt  a  lot  these days, though. Maybe we can grow them so that they better
fit  the  us  of now. Cultural bonzai doesn't have a good track record, so I
suspect  that  they  won't ever be what we want them to be (even if we could
agree). They'll just fit us better, (and be more fit--pun semi-intended).

     Deep  rooted,  I  say.  For  example, and more relevant to net.motss--I
haven't  ever  seen  a gay or lesbian relationship that did not *most of the
time*  exhibit differential 'sex roles.' They may swap or submerge, but from
what I've seen, they surface daily.  They're so solidly a part of us that
they persist when they're not relevant.
Comments? 


	Eirikur Hallgrimsson  


Mon 9-Jul-1984 17:13 Marlborough uncorrected time.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncca.ARPA (Steve Dyer)
07/10/84
	     Deep rooted, I say.  For example, and more relevant to
	net.motss--I haven't ever seen a gay or lesbian relationship that
	did not *most of the time* exhibit differential 'sex roles.' They
	may swap or submerge, but from what I've seen, they surface
	daily.  They're so solidly a part of us that they persist when
	they're not relevant.  Comments? 

Provocative, but I'm a little unclear on what you are trying to say:
Gay and lesbian people are also ruled to some extent by sex roles (not
surprising) OR that gay relationships display a male/female role polarity
(definitely disputable.)  Can you expand on this?  
-- 
/Steve Dyer
{decvax,linus,ima}!bbncca!sdyer
sdyer@bbncca.ARPA

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
07/10/84
Just a comment: the effects of cultural categories & socialization
are profound; only some of it is visible or conscious.  But there's
a danger in making a geiven set of sex roles (or sex roles at all)
too important or unchangeable:  they vary greatly form society to
society.

For example, gender role behavior among the Burmese is nearly the
exact opposite of what it is in North America: women do most heavy
daily chores, are dominant, aggressive, decisive; men are more
emotional, quarrelsome, gossipy, generally what a gringo would
consider "effeminate".

In much of India and China culturally determined personality diffe-
rences based on gender are matters of status, i.e. a social postion's
rights & obligations, rather than of role, a set of behaviors.  Males
are dominant, but for many social levels in either country, appropriate
male behavior involves much that would be considered outrageous in
North America: men holding hands, other displays of affection, lack of
aggression, often a complete lack of anything remotely resembling
"machismo" (a much abused word).

There are people who have been raised in one of these cultures & in
say North America:  I doubt they're all horribly mangled, conflicted,
etc. as a result.  Roles CAN change even within a given individual's
life;  they can even be consciously altered, though this is often
very difficult.

We can acknowledge the often profound effects of culture without
making a fetish of a specific culture's forms.

(By the way, I disagree that gender role differences lurk either
at the margin or in the heart of every gay relationship.  Eirikur's
perception could be a result of the specific people he's known or
of a fuzzily-defined idea of "gender role".)

					"Is there sex after death?"
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rlr@pyuxn.UUCP (Rich Rosen)
07/12/84
(message was not found)
