addendum to saq's remarks
maf@unisoft.UUCP (Mary Ann Finnerty)
07/02/84
Years ago, when working against California's proposed initiative
to prevent homosexual's from teaching in elementary and high schools,
I was confronted with some staggering statistics - actually 98%
of reported child molestations are hetersexual (man/girl) cases.

I don't think that it is so much that people don't care as much
about little girls.  I think it has more to do with the way that
some people catagorize what they experience/think.  Like, well,
at least it was a `normal impulse' and not some really abnormal
behavior.  Sick, but...

See I was molested when I was a kid (8), but we never reported it.
First of all, because my mother didn't believe me.  Then, after the
doctor's office, when she had to accept that it had happened, she
told me that it was my fault for giving such `bear hugs'.  I had
NEVER hugged this stranger, but she figured I had brought it on,
anyway...My father, on the other hand, never said a word about anything.  
I can't know for sure, but it seems to me that they were hurt about
what happened to me, but would have be more repulsed if it had happened
to my brother.  Not that they love me less, but that the actual `act'
didn't scare them the way a homosexual act would.

But people sure are weird with regard to what they find repulsive
and what they don't.  Well, not so much weird, just inconsistent.
For instance, Boston has quite the red-light district - porn theaters
for days.  Some of these theaters regularly show movies which portray
women being brutally beaten and raped. Then, in the `regular' theaters
one can often see women being brutally murdered. (In `True Confessions',
an otherwise interesting and well-acted film, the victim is naked,
and mutilated, as well.)  (Why is it that, in movies, when men are
murdered, they have their clothes on, but when women are murdered
they are naked - women get killed in the bedroom and men in their offices?)
Still, Boston forbade the screening of `Caligula' - why? Castration!
Why is that worse?  Who knows...

Mary Ann Finnerty
maf

-----------------------------------------------------------------

