gay/lesbian contributions
peterr@utcsrgv.UUCP (Peter Rowley)
07/13/84
After several months of being unsubscribed to this group, I started reading
it again (on Sophie Quigley's suggestion) and found the material much more
interesting than before (thanks Sophie).  In particular, articles concerning
the "legitimacy", moral and otherwise, of homosexuality have grown somewhat
in sophistication (at least the attackers no longer post anonymously).
While I can't truly empathize with the gay/lesbian community, not being a 
member of it, I hope I can offer a useful observation on this debate.

It has been asked if the homosexuals mentioned by Steve Dyer contributed to
society *because* they were homosexuals.  Possibly they did (more on this
later), but even if they didn't, the persecution they suffered surely
reduced the amount that they contributed-- some are energized by having to
fight for their *ideas*, but ad hominem attacks are hard to be enthused by.
Intolerance reduces a society's standard of living, because some of its
members are not allowed to be fully productive.

So perhaps you will agree with me that natural diversity should be at least
tolerated, so that people of various groups are given the chance to be
fully productive.  Is there value in *promoting* diversity?  In a society
forced to undergo rapid change due to technological advancement, we appear
to be in need of, as they say, "new ideas":  the economic system can't be
said to be working when there's 11% unemployment,  relationships can't
be said to be working when there's a 50% divorce rate.  These are
not just theoretical considerations-- they make differences in peoples'
day-to-day lives... to whether or not people can feed their children.

New ideas, in whatever field, are inhibited by a climate of orthodoxy.
New ideas, in whatever field, are encouraged by a climate of openness and
curiousity.  I do not argue for blind acceptance, but for an enlightened self-
interest that realizes that novel perspectives may turn out to be useful
and should at least be considered.  I am angered that some people, in their
desire to have people think as they do (or out of a Machiavellian desire to
exploit), have deprived me of ideas that would make my life better.

It is sad that acceptance of blacks did not set a precedent of universal
tolerance.  I look to acceptance of homosexuals as another step in the
promotion of universal tolerance of differing views.  I believe that is
one contribution that their activities currently make.

More importantly, I look to the gay/lesbian community for new views on
relationships and the role of sex in them.  I think, now, much of its
energy is devoted to self-defense (that's certainly the case in
this newsgroup).  On the other hand, my limited exposure to feminist
literature indicates that lesbian experience is occasionally drawn upon
as a source of ideas-- perhaps a topic that someone more qualified than
I could follow up.

p. rowley, U. Toronto
