John Boswell talks about Gay Christian History: Part 3
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
05/30/84
THE GAY CHRISTIAN EXPERIENCE: An Historical Perspective

[Summary of a talk given May 21, 1984 at the Church of the Covenant in
 Boston by John Boswell, author of the ground-breaking study CHRISTIAN-
 ITY, SOCIAL TOLERANCE & HOMOSEXUALITY (U. Chicago Press, 1980) and
 professor (at a tender 37 years of age) of history at Yale.]

[All errors of logic or fact or stylistic inelegance are mine.  Much of
 the summary's wording is taken verbatim from Boswell but not quoted to
 make reading easier.    ---    Ron Rizzo ]


			PART THREE

There is nothing in the teachings of Christ as presented in the New
Testament to support either the complete exclusion of women from
power & authority in the church or the church's doctrine of basic
inequality between the sexes.  On the contrary, the emphasis on love
as the sole or overriding criterion by which to morally evaluate all
human relationships tends to promote egalitarianism and the discarding
of most conventional social roles, including gender roles.

Yet most church doctrine was adopted by majority vote, a method called
"kataholon" (?, "of the whole", from which the word "catholic" comes),
in a long series of councils that were convened over the centuries to
settle theological disputes.  The early church had female clergy (deacons),
bishops were popularly elected, and women participated at councils and
in other powerful church bodies.  They probably comprised at least half
of all church members as well.  Nevertheless, using a succession of ma-
jority votes, these very same "coed" councils systematically stripped 
women of all power & rights within the church.  How could this possibly
have happened?

Boswell claims the early church adopted a secular ethical ideal, "virtus"
(English "virtue" ultimately derives from it), as the standard underlying
its conception of morality, even though virtus blatantly contradicts the
ethical notions of the New Testament.  Virtus defines the Good as manliness
and proposes masculine traits as ethical criteria: strength, decisiveness,
assertiveness, etc.  It likewise denigrates qualities seen as "feminine"
as undesirable & even immoral.  It still has a profound effect on how
Christians think about ethics.

The result was the radical disenfranchisement within Christianity of half
the human race and the establishment of misogyny as Christian doctrine.
Given such a complete perversion of the faith and the institution, is
eventual homophobia any surprise?  The church has been characteristically
indifferent, &, less often, hostile, even to heterosexuality, the majority
sexual preference (Jerome, an early Father of the church, believed that
a husband who displayed "too much" affection or concern for his wife had
committed adultery).  For a minority sexual preference, Christian indif-
ference to eros meant homophobic sentiments within the church would not
be suppressed when they occurred, & Christian hostility to eros could be
decisive when the church absorbed secular bigotries (homophobia, misogyny)
under the external pressure of social change, even though these were at
odds with basic Christian values.

The other two attitudes towards eros that Christianity has displayed are
much less common but still significant:

3) Ambivalence, often misperceived as hostility or indifference (Boswell
   said little about this); and

4) A positive valuation of eros: this tradition has nearly escaped notice.
   It has parallels in other religions: in Judaism, the mysticism centering
   on the Zohar; in Islam, sufism.  Boswell thinks gay people have been
   fundamentally responsible for this tradition in these three faiths.  For
   example, there is "no hint of procreative intent in the New Testament's
   description of love".  Love doesn't exclude passion.  The words used
   for love in Koine, the Greek-derived lingua franca in which the NT is
   written, had also human and erotic connotations.  Up to the 13th century,
   a number of gay lover/saint couples were widely venerated (and still are
   in the eastern church).

		(PART FOUR will conclude this "synopsis")
