Gay-Baiting
debenedi@yale-comix.UUCP (Robert DeBenedictis)
04/14/84
I know it's really easy to criticise films in this genre.
And this film is definitely in the cut and slash genre.

I only mention it in this group because the film makes an incredibly mild
pro-gay statement.  Milder than most anti-gay statements that one usually
comes across in mass culture products.  The statement occurs towards the end
of the movie.  I won't say much.  But basically, this guy is in the shower.
He hears a noise and thinks it's his friend.  He says something like "Howie,
is that you?"  Howie doesn't respond.  He says something like "Hey, Howie, I
dropped my soap.  Wanna Bend Over and pick it up? <chuckle, chuckle>"  I never
have liked that joke.  Never.  In fact, I never really thought it was funny.
Soon after the kid in the shower says this he gets what he deserves.
I was glad.
I thought it was interesting that the guy in the shower would say this to Howie.
He said it because Howie wasn't responding.  I got the impression that he said
it as a 'last resort.'  The implication being that, if you don't want to be
mistaken for gay, you respond to statements like that.  If you don't, you can
get shit for being gay.  No one wants that.  Hence the kid in the shower knew
that if it was Howie out there, he would respond to *that*.  (or else appear
uncomfortably silent)

Hey, while were on the topic of mildly oppressive taunts I'd like to ask a
strange question.  What kinds of anti-gay socializing experiences did you go
through as a kid in school?  For Example:  what did it mean when someone would
shake your hand with their middle finger folded in.  Do You Know What I Mean?
I always found that VERY disturbing as a kid.  It was like "what is this
person doing, how am I supposed to react."  Also, I vaguely new that it had
something to do with being an outcast.  I kinda knew that it didn't really
matter how you responded but that the chief thing was that you weren't supposed
to let it throw you off kilter.  If it was the kind of thing that you had
trouble dealing with, you were dead meat.  It wasn't the kind of thing that
your friends did to you.  But then again, 3rd grade friends are pretty different
from 12th grade relationships.    Does Anyone Else Remember This?    I get the
impression that these are the kinds of things that I (being gay) would be MOST
likely to repress.  It's not a pleasant memory.  I only mention it in the hopes
that someone else out there will remember something even more disturbing so that
I can go "Oh yeah, I guess I remember that.  WOW, I haven't thought of that
since I was a kid.  And no wonder!  It gives me the creeps even NOW, just to
think about it."

It makes me think of this story a friend told me.  One year a somewhat popular
kid in my friend's high school went around telling people he was gay.  He got a
few other people to say "Oh yeah! oh really? you know what, I'm gay too."  At
which point the somewhat popular kid would reveal that he was just out to make
fools out of all the faggots.  "Ha Ha! Sucker, you fell for it, now everyone's
gonna know that you're gay."  If I'd been in high school with that somewhat
popular kid I would of spent every ounce of creative energy towards subtly
degrading that guys quality of life.  That guy would've been the one person
whom I could've *truly* hated.

Does all this stuff fall under the heading of Gay-Baiting?  And while were on
the topic, what IS gay-bait, huh?  Is it a cop who hangs out in parks waiting
to arrest 'loitering' gays?  Is it a straight guy (yeah! uh, huh, right.) who
goes to a gay bar to pick up some unsuspecting "queer" so that he can take him
home and beat him up?  WHAT IS IT?  I apologize if this discussion increases
the general paranoia of our closeted brethren.  My intention is to elucidate,
not to frighten.  Anyway, I get the impression (I've been getting a LOT of
impressions these past few minutes) that these are the kinds of questions
that truly closeted people are just dying to ask, but of course, since they're
truly closted, there's noone to ask.

All you verbal netters:  Don't leave me out in the field with this one --
			 Venture a reaction, at worst you'll be ignored.

Another Trauma In The Playground from
Robert DeBenedictis
decvax!yale-comix!debenedi
