Here's A New One For You: Dear Abbey
crane@fortune.UUCP
06/20/84
Usually when somebody starts a new topic in a newsgroup either a heated
discussion ensues or he/she is told to move it to another newsgroup or get
off the net entirely.

I would like to try something new: testing the waters first.  I would like
to propose a topic and get response as to its appropriateness.

In some ways USENET could be compared to a newspaper or magazine.  We have
general news, technical news, news about news, political news, religious
news, special interest news, sports, entertainment, and comics. (I suppose
we would spark a whole new depate as to which of the above classifications
net.motss belongs in.) :-)

Anyway, we don't have a Dear Abbey column anywhere to my knowledge.  And we
for darned sure don't have a Gay Dear Abbey column anywhere in any public
media, to my knowledge.  As a topic of discussion in this group from time
to time, what do you think of people making requests for personal advice
and letting whoever feels themselves qualified to answer reply either
publically of privately?

The reason I'm asking this is because I am now having a very serious
problem in my personal life and I would like to personal advice from a
disinterested third party who has more experience than I have or has been
through it.

Maybe other people out there need some advice too.  Maybe some want to give
it.  Maybe not.  That's what I want to find out.

John Crane

-----------------------------------------------------------------

alana@mhuxm.UUCP (whipple)
06/21/84
There is a gay advice column in the ADVOCATE.  It's written by Pat Califia.
I read the magazine for two years before I figured out the gender of this
person (I'm not giving any clues :-).  Now s/he writes more feature articles,
so it should not be so difficult.  But the column is wonderful; it's one of
my favorite features.  The questions come from *all* sorts of people, and
Pat's responses are witty and politically irreverent.

The ADVOCATE is available at *finer* bookstores across the country.
