"Is he cute?" and "Is he gay?"
wdc@mit-eddie.UUCP (William Cattey)
06/14/84
Hello!

The last time I submitted to net.motss was in January, just after
getting a job at BBN.  That was when I cast off my pseudonym of Felix
and introduced myself as Bill Cattey.  Since then I have watched
net.motss submissions slow down to a trickle, and then come back to a
comfortable stream.  I like the way net.motss seems to have a small
number of articles all of which I feel like taking the time to read.  I
confess that I have unsubscribeed to net.singles because I found myself
skipping over ALL the articles.  My thanks to everyone who submits to
net.motss for somehow keeping the newsgroup trim and interesting.

My submission (which will be a long one in keeping with my tradition)
begins a new topic.  I will be looking at two questions I hear a lot and
used to ask a lot:  "Is he cute?" and "Is he gay?"

It struck me as odd that whenever someone would tell me about someone I
had not met, the first two questions I would ask were "Is he cute?" or
"Is he gay?".  I noticed that I chose to ask these two before asking
such things as where the person lived, what they did for a living, what
sorts of things they liked to do.  I concluded that, since these other
two questions were the ones I asked first, they must be important to me.

Cute and gay, are the central ideas in these important questions. Yet
when I thought a little more, I realized that I didn't know what I
really meant when I said gay and when I said cute.  What is going on
here?  I am asking first and most often about two ideas I don't even
have clear in my mind!

As an experiment, I stopped asking those questions for a while.
Instead, I asked more specific questions, trying to find one that felt
like it was addressing the real issue.  I remember one situation
particularly vividly:  I was thinking about a person on the other side
of the room.  I kept asking myself "Is he gay?" and then asking myself
what did I mean by "gay", and why was it important to me that he be gay.

After a while here is what I found out:  I had used the words gay and
cute to express two complicated masses of feelings and ideas.  They were
indeed important to me.  I had to sort them out before I could
communicate them to anyone else, or even understand them myself.

The sorting out began.  I started by noticing that if I were to ask
someone, "Are, you gay?" the answer I got back would not answer the
question I really wanted to know about them.  I also noticed that
cuteness was closely tied to the first impression I would get of
someone.

Although I will continue to refine and sort out these two masses of
ideas and feelings, I have reached some major conclusions:  What I mean
by gay and by cute is not the same thing as what most other people seem
to mean.  I have been with people who wear the label gay who are not
what I was looking for when I said gay!  Others who are physically
attractive, are not my idea of cute!

Last week I stopped asking "Is he gay?" because I realized, that for
what I was looking for, the right "strait" person would "make an
exception".  Some of them have.  I discovered that I had become afraid
of asking people who wear the label "strait" if I could love them.  I
found out (painfully) that it was easiest to have sex with gay men, and
then to have sex with strait men, and then much much harder to be able
to exchange feelings with either a gay or strait man or woman.  When I
asked "Is he gay?"  I wanted to know if it was safe for me to let my
emotional guard down in the presence of the person.

Someone cute turned out, for me, to be someone I felt an emotional and
physical attraction to.  Many of them turned out to be physically
attractive, but few of them turned out to be safe for me to let my guard
down to.

It is said that "Gays are obsessed with physical beauty, and youth".
There seems to be much confusion about gay relationships.  Are gay
people more or less cruel?  What is the meaning of sex to gay people?
Who are gay people anyway?  I think that insight into these questions
may come from thinking about questions like "Is he cute?" and "Is he
gay?".

Bill Cattey
wdc%mit-eddie@mit-mc
wcattey@bbnf
...decvax!genrad!mit-eddie!wdc
