Sexual re-alignment
rh@mit-eddie.UUCP (Randy Haskins)
04/22/84
This is a recent topic that has come up here.  I felt it shouldn't
go by before I make the observation that people who address themselves
to "making happy straights out of unhappy gays" are abstract disciples
of Jerry Falwell.
-- 
Randwulf  (Randy Haskins);  Path= genrad!mit-eddie!rh

-----------------------------------------------------------------

crane@fortune.UUCP (John Crane)
04/24/84
I would hasten to add that NOBODY, BUT NOBODY can make you happy or
unhappy.  You do that yourself.  I don't want to sound too preachy, but
rich and poor; straight and gay; happy and sad and everything in between;
are three different scales. they are MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE.

Take any combination of the above and you can find examples in real life:
rich well-adjusted straight people, rich well-adjusted gay people, poor
well-adjusted straight people, poor well-adjusted gay people. etc. etc.

If anybody out there is worried because they think they might be gay, my
advice would be to quite worrying, find out who you are, and they BE who
you are, whatever that is.

That's not to say that everybody who questions his/her sexuality eventually
turns out to be gay.  I knew a friend in Seattle who thought he was gay for
about 5 years.  He actually lived a gay lifestyle.  Then one day he started
looking into his past and found that the only reason he was attracted to
other men was because he had a very bad experience with a couple of women.
He got his problems cleared up and is now married to a woman.

There is no single cause as to why people ACT gay or ARE gay.  This being
true there is no single "cure".  It is possible to cure the flu or
pneumonia or a broken leg or even a poor mental attitude.  But how do you
"cure" having type O blood or an ability to play the piano or blue eyes or
having six fingers or being smart or creative or having an insatiable lust
for women?

Yes, I think Jerry Falwell or anybody else who claims they can make a
person happy is SICK.  But I think even SICKER is a person who listens to
them.  Don't let anybody else decide for YOU whether you are happy or not.
Everybody, I think, creates their own brand of happiness or misery.

I think I'll decide to be happy today. However, watch out for me tomorrow,
because I may decide to be a stinker!

How about you?
