Ignoring & Homophobia
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
05/23/84
Have any of you who've contributed messages about gay topics to the
other "nongay" net mailing lists experienced a reaction of either
being ignored or given very little attention?

I don't have reason (yet) to believe this has happened on the net
but two things suggest it might be expected:

	--- someone last fall posted a notice to the net about
	    Boswell's book on homosexuality & Christianity & got
	    very little response;

	--- Boswell himself encountered the "ignore them; they'll
	    disappear" reaction:  Jerry Falwell has claimed on 3
	    separate occasions never to have heard of Boswell's
	    book (Boswell quipped "either the man has a very short
	    memory span or he's lying").  In fact, a journalist
	    publicly presented one of Falwell's closest aides
	    with a copy which was accepted.  The author expected
	    violent reaction to his book from evangelicals; but
	    apparently the fundies feel so fundamentally threaten-
	    ed by documented facts and texts that they can only
	    deal with it by pretending Boswell & the book don't
	    exist.  I wonder if this isn't true to a lesser ex-
	    tent of the net, except in cases where you directly
	    attack another netter's message?

					Cheers,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

lmf@drutx.UUCP (FullerL)
05/24/84
<>
I haven't submitted any such articles and so haven't experienced what you
mentioned.  However I suspect from other experiences I've had that there
is a good probability that the "ignoring response" will probably happen on
the net also.  After all how many people "come out" to someone and get
no response from the other person at all. Then that someone appears to 
forget you ever told them and asks when you are getting married.
Or you mention your lover or anything that relates to your sexual 
preference and they ignore what you said and change the subject.
And these people are often family or close friends. I doubt if the average 
person on the net is less homophobic.  At least friends and family hopefully
have more motivation to deal with their homophobia.
				Lori Fuller

-----------------------------------------------------------------

pso@utastro.UUCP
05/24/84
I didn't get ignored when I submitted an article to net.religion but I
did get an attack of homophobia via the mail from some anonymous source
who suggested that I get back into the closet and slam the door behind
me.

Sam
