If my brother told me he is gay...
irish@ihuxb.UUCP (Laura Sheldon-Fehlberg)
05/25/84
I'd say, "Dave, I'm glad you can be honest with me.  Now what do we
do when we're out together and find ourselves eyeing the same guy?"
Really, though, he doesn't seem bothered that I'm happy being straight.
Why should I mind if he realized he'd be happier being gay?  It would
hardly change the person he is, who I've loved for 18 years.  His
happiness and well-being are my main concerns.  Now, our parents
might look at it differently...

I enjoy reading this newsgroup.  It seems to be a place where people
can just be themselves and not worry about getting flamed at for
their beliefs, except when one of these Bible-throwers decides to
condemn everyone associated with this group to hell.  I thoroughly
enjoyed Robert's random ramblings from a couple of weeks ago.
(R - I tried to send you mail but it didn't get through...)  Are
there any other newsgroups where such thoughts could be posted?

Unfortunately, individualism is repressed in today's society.  Every-
one tries to dress "right", be seen with the "right" people, and
keep up with the current trends.  If you aren't EXACTLY like everyone
else, forget it!  You're not with it!  Homosexuality is one of those
things that isn't "right".  I really admire those who come out and
say, "I don't want to be a clone!  I want to be me!"  If that person
chooses to follow a gay lifestyle, then for God's sake let him!  Let
that person be anything he damn well chooses, unless he hurts some-
one else.  People have got to stop taking responsibility for other's
"mistakes".

I have no experience first-hand or otherwise what it's like to be gay
in today's society, except for what I read in this group.  I can't
imagine what it would be like to be shunned and avoided and even
hated because of my preferences.  Nobody seems to mind that I
enjoy Rush, Beethoven, and even Journey.  And I'm addicted to
"Dallas"!  So what?!  So why should anyone care about my sexual
preferences?

I'm beginning to ramble on here.  I'm open to any discussions on
this subject, but flames will be immediately returned to the
sender.  Warning:  I'm a student of karate...  (Oh my God!  She's
involved in a non-feminine activity!  She can fight!  We must show
her the error of her ways!)

Laura
...!ihnp4!ihuxb!irish

-----------------------------------------------------------------

