John Boswell's "Christianity, Homosexuality & Social Tolerance"
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
05/18/84
I recently finished the book.  Has anyone else read it?  How credible
do you think Boswell's arguments/findings are?  I'd summarize the book
except I'm short on time right now.

					Bookishly,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

wdoherty@bbncca.ARPA (Will Doherty)
05/20/84
I have read Boswell's book and find his scholarship quite compelling.
For Boston area folk, you can see Boswell on Monday night (May 21)
at 7:30pm at the Church of the Covenant, 67 Newbury St.  I will be
there with every religious (or interested non-religious, like me)
lesbian or gay friend I can drag there.

A friend of mine from Oklahoma recently had the unpleasant experience
of being told by his father that he would not be welcome in the
house anymore, and that he would be disowned, if he did not decide
after a period of "counselling prayer" that he would renounce his
homosexuality.  His mother told him it would have been easier for
her if he had driven a cross through her heart.  His father said
that homosexuality is not a lifestyle, but a deathstyle.  So much
for the compassion of the religious.


I also just finished a term project in my Managerial Psych class.
It is a study of the relative attitudes of MIT male fraternity and
dormitory residents toward homosexuals.  We found out quite a bit,
and the data turns out to be statistically significant as well.

At Bolt, Beranek and Newman, Inc, where I work on the weekends,
we have formed an Employee Committee Against Discrimination
(ECAD).  We have been studying discrimination against women and 
minorities, including lesbians and gays, here at BBN.  Even
though we don't experience much non-subtle discrimination here
at BBN, management has been quite uncooperative about
stating a policy prohibiting discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation.  We got about 20% of the company to
sign a "request," asking that management alter the policy.
Still waiting to see what will happen.

What's the situation at companies where the rest of you work?


Also, how are the local and state lesbian and gay rights bills
going in your area?

Here in the Boston area, both Cambridge and Boston are
introducing bills into the City Councils this year.
The bills will apply to all employment within the city
limits, rather than simply to public employment.  Housing
protection already exists in Boston.

The Massachusettts Congress passed a lesbian and gay rights bill
through the House last session, but the Senate shuttled the bill
off to the Supreme Judicial Court in the State of Mass. for
an opinion about the legality of the measure (i.e. they didn't
want to deal with it--postponing it until after the end of the
last Congressional session).  But it may very well pass
both branches of the legislature this year in Mass.

As far as I know, Wisconsin is the only state with a lesbian
and gay rights bill.

Does anyone know what they do about military discrimination
in Wisconsin?

					Will Doherty

-----------------------------------------------------------------

