"Why be gay ...?"
dyer@wivax.UUCP (Stephen Dyer)
06/09/84
Listen, Jeff, no one is recruiting you to be gay.  Be what you want.
Find a nice girl.  Wonderful.  Great.  Send me pictures of the kids.

Now, that that's out of the way, it seems to me that you have a very hard
time in your articles separating what is fine for you and what is fine for
anyone else.  To wit:

	Also, one book I quoted before ("Eros Defiled", by John White,
	who is a psychiatrist), as well as another book I've read which
	discussed homosexuality as a psychosomatic disease, point out that
	in the "gay" world, there is a sense of unreality, the chances of
	real long-term commitment are less than in the straight world
	(not zero, but less), and you may end up in a really lonely world
	(who wants a "tired, old queer"?).  I inferred from these books
	that it is the gays themselves who say this.  Thus I think even they,
	if they gathered the courage to be really honest with themselves,
	would admit that they don't think homosexuality is right for them.

Let's replace all references to "homosexual/gay" with "Christian" and find
another book.  Anyway, how does this kind of posting make you feel?
Annoyed?  Frustrated at seeing someone publically derogating something that
is an important part of your life?  A little peeved that someone has the
audacity to say that if you were really honest with yourself
you'd realize that your beliefs are not right for you?  Exasperated that
this person didn't stop at merely saying what was true for him, personally,
but went on to comment about Christians as a group, based on some unseemly
book by a psychiatrist (an expert therefore, right?) with an axe to grind?
Perhaps horrified that this person dredged up tired, old stereotypes without
basis in reality to back up his own fears and preconceptions?  Amazed that
in the same breath he says that he doesn't have any Christians as close
friends, yet still feels free to generalize about them?

Am I hitting you over the head enough?  How does one properly react to such
stupidity?  Best just to let it pass?  Probably.  Flames aren't the answer,
but at this point, I'm beyond taking my own advise.

-- 
/Steve Dyer
decvax!bbncca!sdyer
sdyer@bbncca.ARPA
