Where have all the 'fluffs' gone?
debenedi@yale-comix.UUCP (Robert DeBenedictis)
04/11/84
Gee, this newsgroup sure is dead.  Nobody seen any good plays or movies?
Nobody got anything to say?  How about a good book.  I'm not asking for it
to have a gay theme or anything.  Just for the perspective on it to be that
of a gay person.

I saw BENT (here at school) last weekend.  I'll let the world know what I
thought of it you let the world know what you thought of it.  (The subject
line is a reference to the play.)

Hey, I also saw HOTEL NEW HAMPSHIRE.  Now there's a movie I like: incest,
homosexuality, rape, death, prostitution, racism, family feuds, senility,
all the things that make life great.

Oh well, gotta go.  But please, the net is so full of drivel, why can't
some of it end up in here?  huh?  Or is just that lesbians and gay men lead
such exciting and full lives that they don't have time for such 'cerebral'
pursuits as net.motss.

Hey, I went to see Quentin Crisp tonight.  I got there and they wanted to
charge me $2 bucks to see him.  This fact had only been on the posters that
went up last night (which got torn done this morning?).  I didn't have two
bucks and I didn't feel like asking for any favors and none was offered.
Gee, you know being gay isn't as much fun as it used to be when they stop
asking for contributions and start asking for payment.  Whatever happened to
the old days when gays were far and few between and meeting someone else was
cause for a party?  Oh yeah, I know, wouldn't I rather have my civil rights. I
suppose so, but what fun are boring civil rights.  It's enough to turn a guy
straight.  I mean, really, it's just not as fun as it used to be: you know,
that 'other' perspective that being gay is supposed to give you?  Well, lately
things look the same to me as they do to my straight friends.  Well, I've done
my share.  Why won't other people blab in this group? Self-disclosure got you
down?  Worried about the NSA?  Well, you can worry till you drop, or you can
have fun.  Go see HOTEL NEW HAMPSHIRE.

"Now, We're Never Alone"   (or so I had hoped)
Another Fluff In The Park from
Robert DeBenedictis
decvax!yale-comix!debenedi
