Oklahoma where the wind......
tj@sun.UUCP
04/20/84
Being a product of Oklahoma, I can't but be a little involved in
what is going on there these days. Let me present House Resolution
No. 1054:

"			As Introduced
	A resolution expressing legislative intent that the attorney
	general enter in the 'The National Gay Task Force V. The Board of
	Education of the city of Oklahoma, state of Okalhoma; and directing
	distribution.

	WHEREAS, the U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals and the Nation
Gay Task Force v. The Board of Education of the City of Oklahoma, State
of Oklahoma (Civil 80-1174-E, No. 82-1912) has issued an opinion
declariing part of Section 6-103.15 of Title 70 of the Oklahoma
Statutes which allowed school boards on Oklahoma to fire or deny
employment to teachers engaged in public homosexual activity or
public homosexual conduct to be unconstitutional; and
	WHEREAS, homosexuality is ungodly, unnatural, and unclean;
and
	WHEREAS, homosexuality is an unfit example for children in the 
State of Oklahoma to follow; and
	WHEREAS, the employment practices of school boards are of interest
to the state; and
	WHEREAS, Section 18b of Title 74 of the Oklahoma Statutes gives
the Attorney General the Authority to enter into and take and assume
control of certain cases wherein the interest of the state is
involved if requested to do so by either house of the Legislature.
	NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE 2ND SESSION OF THE 39TH OKLAHOMA LEGISLATURE:
	SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Oklahoma House of 
Representatives that the Attorney General assist the Oklahoma City
School Board in appealing the case of The National Gay Task Force v.
The Board of Education of the City of Oklahoma City, State of Oklahoma
(civil 80-1174-E No. 82-1912) if the case is appealed by the present 
legal counsel of the Board of Education of the City of Oklahoma and that
the Attorney General take and assume control of said case, if necessary, 
to the United States Supreme Court if said legal counsel does not appeal
said case to the higher court.
	SECTION 2. A copy of this resolution shall be dispatched to the
Attorney General and to the Board of Education of the City of
Oklahoma City.


			Cal Thixton (not excessively proud of my home at times)
			...sun!tj
