"To be one, or not to be one."
arndt@smurf.DEC
06/19/84
Ellen Brenner:

Thanks for your reply.

I really do feel that when you make the kind of statements that you are
making ("tolerance of differences is the highest virtue") you ARE talking
morals.  Therefore, I fail to find your reason for finding my reference to
the moral aspect of those things you do as "curious".

MY REASON:  The definition of the word moral!!

"right and wrong", 

I believe you are saying that it is "right" to be tolerant, etc.  Why??

Would you be tolerant of Hitler?  Surely we should all be intolerant of him,
espeially us funny little black guys with hunch backs and yonks of teenage
white girlfriends.  (AHA.  You didn't know I was black did you?  I'll bet
all you flaming liberals out there are eating yourselves alive with guilt
over some of the things you've been thinking and saying about me!  I'd tell
you to sit on it, but I don't want to be the cause of all that pleasure.)

If not tolerant to all then how do you draw the line?  "I'll show you mine
if you show me yours" doesn't seem to work.  That would make you intolerant
of someone like Sargent (Mr.) who doesn't seem to think highly of you and
yours.  One can be intolerant in opinion and say so without being a physical
threat like Hitler.  You can't be saying I'm wrong if I disagree with you.

How do you know so much about God?  

Sargent's (Mr.) God thinks your behavior stinks.  Remember Sodom! Burned to
the ground.  Wicked!  But He also says he has no delight in the destruction
of the wicked (Ezek33:11)  Wants you to straighten out, so to speak.  Tell
Him you can't help it.  I'll stand right behind you.  If it works I'll tell
Him the same thing about masturbation, and some other nasty habits He doesn't
approve of.

But really, how do you know gay is ok???  Cause it feels good?  Cause you
can do it?  

What if I were a concentration camp guard and it felt good to kill people.
You know, power etc.  And I could do it in a camp like that.  I mean who
would stop me?  There ARE character disorders where people feel no guilt.
So how much will feelings buy me?

Bottem line:  You and Sargent (Mr.) meet on common moral ground and start
your intercourse.  See where it leads.  Who knows, you may fall in love.

Ah.  There goes the last of the wine.

Regards,

Ken Arndt

-----------------------------------------------------------------

crane@fortune.UUCP
06/20/84
The best definition of "morality" I have ever read is in Richard
Bach's book "Illusions". Read the part where he conjures up Dracula.

John Crane
