Offensive Connotations
jbf@ccieng5.UUCP
02/02/84
Dear Steve:

I quote you:
>	ccieng3!jbf was hopefully aiming for irony
>	Not only is it blatantly inflammatory and homophobic, it's also sexist.

No, I was not aiming for irony (although irony is a side-effect) -- I was
aiming for EXAMPLE.  My reference was admittedly inflammatory (although
not homophobic).  It was meant sharply to ILLUSTRATE the practice I was arguing
against.

A statement obviously cannot be homophobic, so I will assume you meant to call
ME homophobic.  For the record, intellectually I have no objections against
homosexuality.  Bisexuality would appear to be the 'blessed state'.  For
pragmatic reasons, I favor male homosexuality (since it eliminates some of
the male competition for existing female sexual partners) and slightly oppose
female homosexuality (but only if I am interested in one of the females
involved).  When approached by gays, I refuse as politely as seems indicated
(and am occasionally flattered).

As sexist goes, lazy is more accurate.  After I finished my inflammatory
reference to gay males,  I considered going 'and ...<derogatory reference
to lesbians>...'.  This seemed overly gratuitous -- if my point was made with
the first reference, a second would have seemed more as though I were trying
to deride people than to illustrate something I find unfair.  In retrospect,
maybe I should have:  I received about 4 complaints about my neglect of the
females.

Not a hundred years ago, Oscar Wilde went to jail for being gay.  There
have been many since then.  But here on net.motss one reads the same sort
of techniques that have been used on gays for centuries used on people whose
sexuality differs from the norm in a slightly different way.  I was
reminded of the religious refugees that settled in America to avoid persecution
in England, and directly began to persecute anyone that differed from THEIR
norm.  In this group, I must admit I did expect a little more tolerance.

So I wrote my previous article, hoping that some people who did not find the
'dirty old men....' reference offensive would see the offensiveness of mine,
and see the parallel.

By the way, I am at ccieng5, not 3.

If anyone wonders about the length of articles, it may have something to do
with the circumstance that when one expresses oneself elegantly and concisely,
too many people misunderstand.

Sigh,

Azhrarn
-- 
Reachable as
	....allegra![rayssd,rlgvax]!ccieng5!jbf

-----------------------------------------------------------------

