portrayal of gays...ramble ramble
jdh@hou5g.UUCP
11/21/83
I saw a fascinating ballet performed at the Joyce Theatre
(19th Street and 8th Ave.)  by the Eleo Pomare Dance Company called
"Local Stops on a Full Moon".
The ballet portrays various characters found on New York subways
at 14th street.  Aside from a man in drag (who did very little
dancing), one section of the ballet was a ..pas des deux? (duet)
with a sadomasochistic couple -- of men....with leather, chains,
and all for costumes.
It was an excellent ballet.  Good dancing.  Certainly thought
provoking.  However one feels about the couple in real life, the
piece was definately a work of art.
Certainly one of the problems with censorship of pornography
(being a rabid feminist I violently oppose pornography)
is the danger of censorship of such works as this.

Speaking of censorship, one reason it would be more important
to keep men out of women's bars as opposed to women out of
men's - gay bars is that men would be more likely to go
to women's bars to harass the women than women would be likely
to do in men's - gay bars. (You know men... they're all alike.)

Speaking of gay teachers, one of the best teachers I ever had in
high school is gay (male).  I had no idea at the time.

Speaking of lesbian-feminist-separatists, is it true that if you 
are not a vegatarian you are politically incorrect?  Do you really
have to wear long unkempt hair and army boots?  Has any 
authoratative book ever been published outlining the duties of
an l-f-s?  (Something along the line of the Preppie's Handbook, 
preferably.  Please direct suggestions to the net, not me!!!)

If you're a vegetarian, does that mean you can be more easily
seduced by lesbians/gays than a non-vegetarian can?  (It wouldn't be 
surprising, vegetables don't have much backbone.)

What percent of lesbians do you suppose wear makeup?  Perfume?  Skirts?
Shave their legs?  What percent of women who don't do these things 
are lesbians?  What percent of lesbians are feminists?  
What percent of men who are gay wiggle their ass, 
droop their hand at the wrist, and mispronounce their s's? 
How many people out there are fairly certain that effeminate
body movement is a highly accurate indication of male gaiety?  
(Let's start a survey!!!!)  

I read a wonderful (I was laughing to the point of tears)
book called *Kin Flicks* not too long ago.  It's essentially about the
influence of one's current companians on one's life.  It's about a
woman trying to "find" herself.  (Be forewarned, she doesn't end up a 
lesbian.)   I highly recommend it.  I don't know the author.

Read any good books lately?

I think anyone who announces they're gay in any netnews group is
insane.  I also think that if the prerequisite to being gay is
coming out, the percentage of gays may drop considerably.
