Turing biography
sdyer@bbncca.ARPA (Steve Dyer)
11/14/83
	This Sunday's NYT Book Review has a review of a new biography of Alan
Turing, "Alan Turing: The Enigma", by Andrew Hughes (Simon & Schuster, $22.50).
Doug Hofstadter reviews the book.  It's apparently the only substantial
biography of Turing that has appeared in the thirty years since his death.  Here
is an excerpt from the review (copied without permission):

	"In the early 1950's, Turing's interest turned somewhat away from
computers and mathematics and toward biology, and he might have looked
forward to a long life pursuing his intellectual dreams.  But, as he got
older, he also became increasingly vocal about his sexual preferences, often
ignoring the advice of friends to be more cautious.  Turing's house was
burglarized in 1952, and it was quickly clear to him that one of his
occasional lovers was involved.  In the course of making depositions to the
police, Turing revealed his homosexuality.  Instantly, the course of his life
was irrevocably changed.

	"At that time in Britain there was a movement to look upon homosexuality
as a disease caused by hormone imbalances and physicians had proposed various
"cures." Turing was found guilty of homosexuality and was sentenced to
"treatment" rather than jail.  Regular injections of female sex hormones were
given to him to quell his sex drive.  Turing did not want to try to use any of
his connections in government or the academic world to mitigate his sentence and
he simply endured it, growing breasts and being rendered impotent by the time
the treatment ended in a year.

	"The torment he endured, Mr. Hodges says, left permanent scars.
For the next couple of years Turing appeared for the most part quite happy to
his friends.  But one day in 1954, he prepared a cyanide-coated apple,
just as he had once seen the wicked witch do in Walt Disney's "Snow White and
the Seven Dwarfs."  Unlike her, he bit into his own apple, and he was found
dead the next day.  He planned it in such a way that his mother would interpret
it as an "accident with chemicals," but others knew better.  Although today
all evidence strongly suggests that the machine known as Alan Mathison Turing
halted itself of its own free will, the ultimate reason remains an enigma
to us, an undecidable question."

-----------------------------------------------------------------

notes@ucbcad.UUCP
11/19/83
#R:bbncca:-30800:ucbesvax:32500005:000:405
ucbesvax!turner    Nov 19 02:09:00 1983

C. Lehman-Haupt's review of "Alan Turing: The Enigma" has been posted to
net.ai.  The reviewer points out that it was the biographer's interest in
repression of homosexuality that lead him to write a life of Turing.  CL-H
seems to think that this element is consequently a bit overplayed.  (The
whole review is a little condescending, but generally favorable.)
---
Michael Turner (ucbvax!ucbesvax.turner)
