Poking and prodding from "Felix"
dyer@wivax.UUCP (Stephen Dyer)
12/18/83
Hello again,

	While people are off pondering their reactions to the question
of anonymity and net.motss, I decided to dump another article into the pipe
to see if I could get more people submitting to net.motss.

	Before anything else I would like to go on record as considering
myself completely un-qualified to say anything about Lesbian S&M.  Every
time I say anything about Lesbianism a lesbian friend of mine
disqualifies my comment on the basis of my being a man and therefore my
inability to appreciate the problems of being a woman.  I wanted to make
clear that when the topic is related to being lesbian, I sit and listen
rather than speak.  This paragraph exists because I felt guilty seeming
as if I was ignoring the topic already on the floor.

	Those who would damn us while quoting scripture are gone but so
too are so many others who have been submitting to net.motss.  This
problem also occured on the bboard I mentioned I read (see my previous
article).  Two things happened to revive that group:

	1) The sysop let all the users of the bboard see that there was
a gay-notes group.  Previously people had to know about it and ask to
get on it.  This brought more people on and initiated a lively
discussion of the appropriateness of giving the public access to the gay
newsgroup.  This will not help net.motss since it is already publicly
accessible.

	2) The sysop submitted an article which was an impassioned plea
for submissions.  He said that people should reply immediately to points
made rather than waiting for some time (that usually never came) when
they could carefully think out a reply.  It was sort of saying that any
submission was better than none.

	People out there running vnews have no excuse!  The 'f' command
automagically posts a followup article.  When there is a lot of garbage
flowing into the newsgroup, then we can think about holding back and
carefully crafting a piece of prose.  Until that time comes, let us at
least fly a few lines out into this news group before it goes the way of
net.micro.432 where every week or so people ask if it is dead.

	Right now, think of a topic and submit something to net.motss
about it.  There are lots of very good questions that we ask ourselves
often that we would like to ask other people as well.  It should be easy
to stay within the guidelines of:

a) No articles about steamy sex
b) No articles pro and con on being gay
c) No articles that should go to net.religion or net.philosophy

Do it now so that we can begin to share our thoughts again, and so you
don't decide against it when you're feeling self conscious.

	Anonymous but not self conscious,
	"Felix"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

