Yet more on lambda
dis2@houxm.UUCP (A.NESTOR)
12/09/83
Lambda as resistance:
Raleigh has quite correctly pointed out that  the  omega  is  the
symbol  in  modern  physics  for electrical resistance.  I should
have said lambda was used as a symbol of  resistance  as  physics
developed  from alchemy.  The difference in movement of particles
in various media has been long observed.   It  was  thought  that
each  medium  had  an  inherent resistance.  Attemps were made to
measure this resistance, and a lambda value  was  given  to  sub-
stances  as a measure of their resistance to passage of particles
through them.  From this came refractive indices,  grating  equa-
tions,  etc.   The  use of lambda as a wave length developed from
this earlier use of lambda.  Of course most of the early  experi-
ments  on  the  resistance of media were with light, so there may
also be a connection with the Latin, lampa.
Lambda and the Spartans:
The people who first used  the  lambda  in  1968  were  certainly
unaware  that  the  lambda  was  connected with Sparta.  Had they
known that, the lambda would certainly  never  have  been  used!!
While the sentiments expressed in the "LAMBDA CONNECTION" Catalog
about Sparta are of the most laudable and  unreproachable  modern
variety,  they owe more to Steve Reeves movies than to the actual
history and nature of Sparta.  Sparta was, at least from the time
of  Lycurgus,  a particuarly cruel military, oligarchic dictator-
ship, even by the standards of the ancient world.  This was  cer-
tainly  its  reputation  in  the ancient world as testified to by
Herodotus, Thucydides, and Plutarch.  Male children unsuited  for
military  service  were exposed to death.  The helots, Messenians
and even other Laconians were ruthlessly supressed and destroyed.
When  the Athenaians committed atrocities later in the Pelopones-
sian War, they were stigmatised by their allies as behaving  like
their  enemies,  the Spartans.  etc., etc.  The "spartan" quality
of Sparta was self abnegation in subservience of what  would  now
be  called an aggressive "garrsion state".  The chief admirers of
Sparta in the ancient world were the equally  militaristic  post-
republic Romans.

In connection with Sparta, there has been for several years  talk
about  Leonidas and his army of undefeatable lovers as emblematic
for gay males.  Certainly in 1968 during the Vietnam  war,  there
was  no  enthusiasm  to propogate that image!  Outside a very few
leather groups today, the only serious advocacy of  this  was  by
Rohmer  and  the  brown shirts!  I have seen banners reading, "An
army of lovers (spelt with a lambda) cannot be defeated", at  Gay
Liberation Day marches.  However, I doubt whether this meant as a
reference to the Spartan phalanxes.  It is just that  the  slogan
nicely combines affection with menace.
                                              Creighton Clarke

-----------------------------------------------------------------

laura@utcsstat.UUCP (Laura Creighton)
12/11/83
Hello Creighton Clark!

Do people spell your first name as strangly as they spell my last?
I have always wondered...

It is a long an cherished belief of mine that the phalanx was an
invention on Philip of Macedon, who is probably my favourite historical
military figure. For those of you who don't know, Philip was Alexander
the Great's dad. Thus the phalanx postdates the Spartans. Am I wrong?
If so, what were you supposed to call the Spartan military formation?

laura creighton
utzoo!utcsstat!laura

-----------------------------------------------------------------

laura@utcsstat.UUCP (Laura Creighton)
12/11/83
Before you all die laughing or flaming -- that should have been, if *not*
not if *so* in that last article...

laura creighton
utcsstat!laura

-----------------------------------------------------------------

