Reply to "Tinkerbelle"
crane@fortune.UUCP (John Crane)
01/10/84
Dear Tink at MIT:

Alias:
Will Doherty
USE: wdoherty!decvax!bbncca
ARPA: wdoherty@bbng
TINKLEBELL: 617-262-3485

I could not let your letter go unanswered. Here is my reply:

>       This is my first submission (har) to motts.  I've  been  trying  to
>       find it for quite some time.  I want to state that I am gay so that
>       someone at least will show that they are proud (at least  unashamed
>       of their sexuality) and not afraid of reprisal.

Who really cares what somebody's  sexual  orientation  is  unless  you  are
trying to pick him/her up and don't want to get punched out?  I put knowing
somebody's sexual orientation on the same category as  what  they  had  for
breakfast yesterday or their mother's maiden name.  Nice to talk about but,
beyond that, not really relevant or useful.

>       I consider this fear to be paranoid, although probably  appropriate
>       for some people.

Who are you to judge other people.  Maybe its not  fear  they  have.  Maybe
they just think it's nobody else's "%#^$^%" business.  Maybe they do it out
of respect for other people's feelings.  That  is,  a  Gay  person  is  not
afraid  of  reprisal,  but  he  doesn't want to lay a heavy trip on another
person that the other person just isn't equipped to handle.  Would you, for
instance,  tell  your  85-year old grandmother who is on her death bed that
you are Gay, just to prove that you are brave and fearless.  The  old  lady
would probably die from shock on the spot, and you would get to feel guilty
about having  killed  her.  An  extreme  example,  perhaps,  but  a  useful
extrapolation of the point I want to make.


>       I find  that  I  could  not  possibly  work  with  people  who  are
>       homophobic,  nor  consider them to be close friends.  Frankly, such
>       people are ignorant, just as are racist and sexist folks.  In  this
>       particular use, I mean people who are intentionally racist, sexist,
>       or homophobic, not those who are unintentionally so.  But even  for
>       those  people,  I  do  not  believe  that  the  oppressed  have  an
>       obligation to educate the oppressor.  A vested interest  to  do  so
>       perhaps.

Does this make you homohomophobic?  Do  you  honestly  believe  people  are
intrinsically  "racist"  or  "sexist",  or do they (or sometimes all of us)
commit isolated acts that may seem "racist  or  sexist"  to  other  people?
Also,  if  you  think  somebody  else hates you, why bring yourself down to
their level by hating them back?

>       Also, by the way, I'm a member of NAMBLA and I'm  really  angry  at
>       the  person  who described me as a bane to the homosexual movement.
>       I think you're both arrogant and wrong.  But then,  let's  not  get
>       emotional  about  this.  I  will  gladly  debate  the  position  on
>       completely rational turf.

The person was both humble and right.  If you want to make any friends, you
should learn to be a little more tactful.

It sounds like you are active and involved in civic affairs.  Good for you.
But  it  seems  to  me  you should learn the one fundamental principle that
successful politicians know: how to disagree without being disagreeable.

John Crane

-----------------------------------------------------------------

wdoherty@bbncca.ARPA (Will Doherty)
01/15/84
Dear John Crane,

I believe that "somebody's sexual orientation" is important not only
because I may want to have sex with them, as you suggest, but 
because I want to know whether they will have some idea of how to
treat me as a person, despite the fact that I enjoy sex with motss.
I feel that gay people, at least the gay people I have met, have a
greater understanding of the ways that people oppress each other.

I try not to oppress other people by my words, my actions.  I seek
to learn from people who believe I am acting in an oppressive way,
especially if they are willing to spend the time to explain to me,
in an understanding and constructive way, what they mean.

I don't feel that people should have to state their sexual
orientation to be on the net, I just wish we lived in a society
where they didn't have to feel afraid to live their lives as their
sexuality directs them.

In your comments about "Gay" people (I don't know why it is
capitalized), you use the generic "he."  I believe that since gay
people may be female or male, a more appropriate pronoun 
reference could be found (you may wish to try the plural form,
for instance).

I would not "tell your 85-year-old grandmother who is on her death
bed that you are Gay, just to prove you are brave and fearless."
This is not an issue of bravery or fearlessness.  This is an issue
of living one's life with dignity in a society which denies a
significant part of one's life.  I do, in fact, wish to share 
knowledge of my sexuality with my grandmother, but I do not wish to
trouble her with the difficulties she might think I would face.
I have explained to my parents that I am gay and, as time goes on,
they become more and more comfortable with my sexuality.  Because
they love me, they have taken the time to learn about a sexuality
which is different than their own.  The more they learn, the more
comfortable they have become and the less they worry about the
societal problems I may encounter.

When I went to Rochester, NY, for the holiday season, a lover named
Mike spent a few days at my parents house.  He shared my life and that of
my family as any cherished guest might have done.  My parents
showed us both to the same guest room for our visit.  I am proud
of my parents and I'm glad I "came out" to them.  We were distant
for a long time because I was worried about how they would handle
it.  Now, we are closer than ever before.

I guess in some ways I am "homohomophobic."  I don't believe that
I should always have to tolerate homophobic follies.  Just as you
don't believe that you should have to tolerate people who accost
you when you walk down the street (I assume).

I do not think that I should "hate" someone just because they "hate"
me, especially in the case of homophobia.  In fact, I spend a lot
of time dealing with people who are trying to understand the issue.
But if someone spits in your face on a day when you're a bit tired
because you've been working hard to pay the rent, I don't believe 
you have an obligation to stop and sweettalk the person.  Sometimes,
I just have other priorities in my life.

I appreciate your advice about making friends.  I try to be tactful.
I must be fairly tactful, because I seem to have no shortage of
friends.

I still stand by what I said earlier.  "Lance" may describe me as
whatever he chooses, but I don't have to sit here and tolerate it.
Normally, I don't describe someone as "arrogant and wrong" in the
interests of tact, even though that is basically what I continue
to feel about what he said.  In general, I do try to "disagree without
being disagreeable," but sometimes, in the interests of honesty,
one may use stronger words.  Honesty, to me, may sometimes require
greater attention than tact.

As far as inherent racism, sexism, and homophobia--
Yes, I believe that these creatures exist, perhaps even with some
genetic basis, though primarily a cultural basis, in all human
beings, or at least in all that I have ever known or read about.
If someone commits "isolated acts that may seem 'racist' or 'sexist,'
to other people," even if they are not so intended, they may still,
in fact be 'racist' or 'sexist.'  An obvious example would be the
contention of some southerners (and others) that black people are
less intelligent than white people (without any substantial evidence).
They don't believe they're racist; they think they're just plain right.
But I think they're racist--how about you?

				Will Doherty
				decvax!bbncca!wdoherty
