MORE MISCELLANEOUS
wdoherty@bbncca.ARPA (Will Doherty)
01/22/84
To: Randwulf (genrad!mit-eddie!rh)

I don't consider Playboy to be a resource on the morality of
crossgenerational sexuality, heterosexual or otherwise.
I think that anyone who can figure out how to get to the voting
booth and pull the levers has the right to vote (as long as
each person gets only one vote of course).  I think people
should be able to get married at the age of 14, or at any age,
if they so desire.

I worry about children who don't have knowledge of pregnancy and
contraception engaging in sexual activity.  In crossgenerational
relationships (or any heterosexual relationships for that matter),
I consider this (contraception) to be the responsibility of the
more knowledgeable (generally the older) partner.

Perhaps if you had started having sex before you were 18, you would
have had more experience sooner and you would have been able to
understand more of the "implications" earlier.  Or maybe the
"implications" just would have been different.

But anyway, I certainly agree with the right to celibacy mentioned
by another contributor, and that includes a right to be free from
harassment for a sexuality which certainly doesn't require too much
consent from others.

As far as most of the rest of your comments go--
Well, let's face it, flames fall in one of two categories: reasoned
or unreasoned.  I consider category 1 worthy of reply.  That means
category 2 ain't worth the trouble.  But when you consider yourself
glad that you're not gay because you "would feel compelled to hunt down 
all of the members of NAMBL [sic] for giving people of my persuasion
a bad name," I think you should consider two things:
1) Many of us lesbian and gay folk may be glad to have a person of
your insight refusing to identify with us.
2) Many participants in crossgenerational sexuality are straight (i.e.
your sexual orientation).

The only reason crossgenerational lovers expect lesbians and gays to
better understand our oppression is because lesbians and gays have
had to suffer similar oppression by similar segments of our society
(don't worry, I won't mention any names).


To: Laura Creighton (utzoo!utcsstat!laura)

I agree that we should "drop the age restriction (which isn't gonna
work anyway, people being as they are) and teach kids how not to be
manipulated through force or guilt" at least to the extent that that
is possible.  I also believe in penalties for those who force sexual
acts on anyone.  That indeed is the "unacceptable platform."


To: P.Heisler (wjh12!hocsj!pph)
wrt: "You should have also put that in net.jokes."
No.


To: "Lance"

I agree that "a child can be severely crippled emotionally by a 
traumatic sexual experience with a trusted adult."  Instead, I
would recommend *healthy* sexual experiences with adults if both
parties so desire.

Indeed it is unfortunate that in some cases, even today, resurgent
barbarism in our society sometimes makes people transform their
healthy opinions of their healthy childhood sexuality into shame
at such "despicable" activities.

No question that incest may hurt children terribly.  But with a
responsible parent, and within a responsible society, I see no
reason why a bit of healthy sexual expression between mother and
child, father and child, or between siblings, should be any problem
whatsoever.

Such expressions are common in a variety of cultures worldwide
(refs available upon request).

As to your last sentence, that gets filed into the unanswerable
abyss of category #2.



To: Dave Sherman (decvax!utcsrgv!dave)

We want to give any two-year-olds who are capable of making it to
the polls the right to vote.  Age should not be a qualification.
Day-old babies must have the right to move out of the house.
Sometimes their parents have the gall to beat them.  As soon as they
are capable of realizing any alternative, they should request the
appropriate aid from the appropriate agency (which today does not
exist in anything approaching a proper solution to the problem).
Now, beating a baby--that is child abuse, but hide the bruises a bit
and don't break any bones.  Then it's legal.  Hell, the teachers can
do it without risk of retribution in the public schools.

NAMBLA does not intend to lower the age of consent.  NAMBLA proposes
to *abolish* the age of consent.

I barely have time to respond to the first round and Steve Dyer's
already begun the second.  When my fingers recover...


				Will Doherty
				decvax!bbncca!wdoherty

-----------------------------------------------------------------

riddle@ut-sally.UUCP (Prentiss Riddle)
01/23/84
I would like to take Will Doherty up on his offer to furnish references
on the practice of incest in other societies.

I am aware that incest taboos vary quite a bit from culture to culture
and that some groups even go so far as to  r e q u i r e  sexual
activity or marriage among classes of relatives which other groups
place strictly off-limits;  nevertheless I haven't heard of examples
which support the radically pro-incest stance which he is taking.  What
I have heard tends to suggest that while the definition of incest
varies, the taboo against it is universal.  If he has examples to the
contrary, I would like to hear about them.

I'm trying to keep an open mind in this discussion.  My own suspicion
is that taboos against incest and cross-generational sex in general
probably serve an important function in protecting vulnerable
youngsters from exploitation, but that criminalization of those taboos
may do more harm than good.  (For example, I question the justice of
statutory rape laws which would jail an adult for sleeping with a
willing 15-year-old, even though I have serious doubts that such a
relationship would often be a "healthy" one for either partner.  An
even more blatant injustice was the recent California case in which a
girl was jailed for refusing to testify against her stepfather in an
incest trial.)

--- Prentiss Riddle
--- ("Aprendiz de todo, maestro de nada.")
--- {ihnp4,seismo,ctvax}!ut-sally!riddle

-----------------------------------------------------------------

jsq@ut-sally.UUCP (John Quarterman)
01/23/84
Well, I never thought much of NAMBLA, but any organization that's
capable of provoking that many irrational emotional knee-jerk responses
*has* to have *something* good about it.  Such as addressing the problem
of arbitrary age limits on various activities.  Sexism is a much more
trendy subject than ageism, but the latter is probably more pervasive.

Whether a discussion of ageism belongs in net.motss is another question....
-- 
John Quarterman, CS Dept., University of Texas, Austin, Texas
jsq@ut-sally.ARPA, jsq@ut-sally.UUCP, {ihnp4,seismo,ctvax}!ut-sally!jsq

-----------------------------------------------------------------

guy@rlgvax.UUCP (Guy Harris)
01/23/84
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

woods@hao.UUCP (Greg Woods)
01/24/84
  I don't agree with much that Will Doherty says, but I expect he would agree
with this comment of mine: A major reason why so many incestual relationships
are so traumatic for the children is precisely because there is such a strong
taboo against it. When it comes out, the children are taught to believe that
what they did (willingly or otherwise) was "wrong" and "degrading", so of
course they feel sinful and degraded. 
  This is *not* an endorsement of NAMBLA or of incest. It's just that this
is such a hot issue that I must confess I think Will is doing a better job
of seeing through the emotional fog than many of his "opponents". I think
nothing can be all good or all bad. I'm sure that Will is just saying
that at least *some* of the time, such a relationship might be good for the
child. I'm not sure I believe that, but at least it provides food for thought.

		   GREG
-- 
{ucbvax!hplabs | allegra!nbires | decvax!kpno | harpo!seismo | ihnp4!kpno}
       		        !hao!woods
