LAMBDA ORIGIN...
vause@ncrcae.UUCP
12/04/83
WHAT IS THE LAMBDA?

LAMBDA is the eleventh lower case letter of the Greek alphabet and is the basis
of out letter "l".  The letter was originated as a picture symbol for the
scales, which are most often seen being carried by the figure of Justice. As
time passed, the lambda began to take on abstract meanings and its visual re-
semblance to the scales diminished. During this period, it began to represent
the concept of balance.  Greeks believed that balance was a coming together of
two opposites and therefore could not be a stable state, but one which required
constant adjustment.

Greek philosophy and its influence was the major force behind the emergence of
the modern day form of the Lambda.  A small hook was added to the base of the
letter indicating that equilibrium can only be achieved through some form of
action, and that once equilibrium has been reached constant action is necessary.

Ancient Spartans showed their unity by using the Lambda symbol.  The balance
they believed must exist between an individual and the state was exhibited by
the Lambda painted on their shields.  Spartica, as a state, was based on the
belief that the demands of the state and society should never interfere with
each citizen's right to be totally free and independent.  Spartans realized that
a common bond was necessary to protect their existence as free and equal
people, but also believed that any individual must be bound to society only
by his choice and desire.

As Rome developed and rose to power, they conquered the world as it existed and
took many things of value from the cultures they conquered.  One of the things
taken from the Greek culture was the lambda.  The Romans viewed the shape of
the lambda as a flame and used it for a symbol for "lampas", their word for
torch.

Modern scientists looking for a symbol for "wave length" of light searched the
historical past and chose the Lambda, because of its connection with the word
torch.

As the gay movement began to gain momentum and organize in the 1960s, the Lambdawas selected as the international symbol.  Previously symbolizing justice; bal-
ance and the connection of opposites; unity and the development of man and his
society; equality, independence, and freedom of the individual; and light --
the Lambda best represented the quality the Gay movement was looking for.

Acceptance of the Lambda has spread and has led to the acceptance of the
symbol as an international marker for gay rights and liberties.  The Lambda
has come to represent the hope of a new and brighter future with dignity for
Gay men and women everywhere.  Today the Lambda represents Gay rights; sexual
liberation; justice and enlightenment for all; and a much needed balance in
acceptance of the many differences existing within all humanity.

--------------------------
     The above text was reprinted from a catalog of THE LAMBDA CONNECTION in
Colorado.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

