sex with children
rh@mit-eddie.UUCP (Randy Haskins)
01/16/84
Well, in one of the recent issues of Playboy (somewhere from
November to January, I don't remember which one.), they
had a few letters in the Forum or somesuch about heterosexual
cross-generation sex.  I think the Playboy editors said
it very elegantly when they noted something to the effect
of:  "Except for a very few cases, we feel that anyone
who thinks that he/she has the best interests of the
youth at heart has a dangerously enlarged bullshit
gland."  (Sorry for the naughty word, but it drives home
the point.)  Why do you think the don't let kids vote?
Why do you think kids shouldn't get married at 14?  Why
are a lot of things restricted from younger people?  They
DON'T have the experience to handle it.  I was 18 the first
time I had sex, and I sure as hell didn't understand all
the implications involved.  I think I understand most of
them now, but I'm sure I have a lot to learn.  A couple
of years ago, I slept with someone 17 years older than
me, and there was a considerable generation gap.  Yes, I've
also slept with someone as much as 3-1/2 years younger than
me (she was 17, and another girlfriend was 17 at one
point when we were sleeping together), so maybe I should 
be in prison, too.  There are limits, however, and there
are some 17-year-olds that I would not have slept with
because I feel they were nowhere near understanding what
they were doing.  Of course, if I felt that the ones I
did sleep with were able to, then maybe my BS gland was
too big.  I suppose it's a tough thing to decide on, but
forming an organization to condone the activity is not
the answer.  I'm not saying I'm ashamed of having slept
with someone who was probably uncapable of a clear decision
in the matter; but it's not something that people should
make a point of or try to do.  I've done a lot of things
that I sort of wish I hadn't done, and I'm not going to 
go out of my way to do again.
-- 
Randwulf  (Randy Haskins);  Path= genrad!mit-eddie!rh
