NAMBLA, parents and homophobia
wa143@sdcatta.UUCP
01/21/84
In reaction to all the NAMBLA flaming that's going on, I thought
I'd add my two cents worth.  I consider myself pretty open-minded,
and I believe that two consenting people (regardless of age) 
should be allowed to do pretty much whatever they want in the privacy
of their own homes.  Actually, I suppose I'm a bit of an anarchist
at heart -- I figure that "live and let live" is great, as long as
you don't infringe on someone else's ability to do the same.

My objection to NAMBLA thus has little to do with the man/boy
interaction.  I see NAMBLA as causing a problem to the gay community
similar to the Soloman amendment and education.  It ties two
issues together that really should not be connected.  NAMBLA is
specifically MAN-BOY.  Thus, the issue of homosexuality is brought
into the matter of age-of-consent/pederasty/whatever.  With
homosexuality already disapproved of by society, people see NAMBLA
and see primarily the homosexual aspect and the child-molestation
aspect.  A lot of people think homosexuals go around and molest
children.  The existance of NAMBLA as a gay oriented group really
doesn't help the image much.  My objection is that NAMBLA 
bring a seperate issue into the issue of homosexuality, regardless
of what that issue is.

[topic switch]

Coming out to parents is a topic that fascinates me.  I know some
incredibly activist gay people who just about introduce themselves
as "Hi, I'm so-and-so, gay activist."  But they haven't come out
to their parents, and some don't plan to.  I find that amusing.

My parents have always prided themselves on being accepting and
liberal.  I told them that I was gay, and my mother's reaction
was "Oh, I'm probably bi myself, and just haven't found the right
woman yet."  My father seemed a bit uneasy, but both declare that
they accept it completely.  After all, I have a gay uncle and a
gay aunt, so why SHOULDN'T they accept it?  

At the same time, I sense that they're really uncomfortable with
the situation although they won't admit it.  My mother seems to 
have an air around her of "well, someday you'll meet the right
girl..." and my father just expressed great surprise when he
found out (via a TV show on PBS!) that gays can have long lasting
relationships.  Fascinating.  He figures for 18 years that, having
been raised in a loving etc. environment, of COURSE I'll be able
to last 60 years with a wife.  But even after he knows I'm gay,
he never considers that I, at least, could enter into a gay
relationship that lasts longer than a week or two.

Anyone know of any good books to recommend to them?  I know that
the best thing would be to talk to them myself, but I feel rather
betrayed by their reluctance to come out and tell me that they're
disturbed and don't feel comfortable talking with them about it.
Of course, their reluctance COULD BE a figment of my imagination,
so who knows?

Anyone out there know anything about the origins of homophobia?
I recently heard an explanation that claimed it was originally
a political maneuver when the ?? (some religious group) was
splitting from ?? (some other religious group), and homosexuality
had been an accepted part of the first religion in certain
rites and so on.  It was first looked down upon as a symbol of
the original religion, and later became a moral issee.

I'm new to this list, so I apologize if I touch on subjects
that have already been covered.  C'est la via!

		Take care,
		  "Scouter"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

motss@wivax.UUCP
01/29/84
[I am posting this through a friends account..]

Re: NAMBLA & homophobia - no comments, at least not right now.

As for coming out to parents, the discussion is, for me, a touchy one.  I
haven't done this yet, although I suspect my mother has a good idea
of what's going on, you know, the motherly instinct.  She does seem to look
for reassuring facts to prove to herself that I'm not.  The situation that
I'm in is different from most others, I think, in that I am not the only one
of the children who is gay.  This makes it especially hard for any of us
to 'come-out' to our parents.   My mom works with two lesbians, and she
used to work with one of our friends, so she has been exposed at least a
little bit.  I guess the thing that is holding any of us back from telling
our parents is that they would start asking questions about the others
in the family.  I mean, three out of four, how would they take it?  Would
they blame themselves?  Was is someone they know?  Was it the water?  :-)
We know the answer... it's just the way we are.  My roommate figures with
3 out of 4, it is bound to surface sooner or later, for at least one of us.
He told his parents a few months ago, they were surprised, and accepting it
on a surface level, but deep down, they still think there is hope.  They are
not ready to meet any of his gay friends.  When he visits alone they find it
easier to relate, and they see that he's still the same son they always
had.  He feels that his parents are constantly trying to analyze him and
his friends, regardless of whether they are gay or not.  If and when I do
come out to my parents, I'm sure they'd recap our entire lives to find out
where things went wrong.  I don't think they would really blame each other
of being over/under protective, but that's still a possibility.  Damn, I'm
being very vague... the truth is, I don't know what to expect.  I guess it's
the fear of the unknown.

I've said enough for know.  My roommate does suggest a book on the subject,
called "A Family Matter".  Unfortunately, it was just lent out and he doesn't
recall the author.  

So Long...  Take care...
	"Kidd"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

