Reply from "Lance"
wdoherty@bbncca.ARPA (Will Doherty)
01/15/84
Dear "Lance,"

I will try to explain the situation involving identical twins in
a message directed to you, not to the net.

I too am glad to see the articles from Steve Dyer, Mike Simpson, and
"Felix."  You say they are doing "a good job of expressing the feelings
of the young gay mainstream."

With this comment, I must take issue.  I believe that they are expressing
their feelings as gay men in our society.  To claim however that they
are representatives of some enshrined "mainstream" is, I believe,
a misrepresentation.

In fact, to me, this kind of language smacks of the rhetoric used by
straight people to deny lesbians and gays their rights.  I could for
instance say, "Such and such persons are doing a good job of expressing
healthy sexuality."  If I were a psychologist living more than about
15 years ago, I might have made this statement to contrast "healthy"
heterosexuals with those dirty child-molesting homosexuals.

Well, we've made some progress since then.  But we still have a long
way to go.

If I were to take the final paragraph of your recent message to me and
alter it a little bit the result might prove illuminating.

You said:

"Will Doherty, and other members of NAMBLA do not represent the
mainstream.  They are a fringe group that offends almost all other
gay people.  I may sound very promiscuous in my articles, but I 
think anyone who seduces a child should go to prison.  NAMBLA has
done and continues to do a great deal of harm to the gay liberation
movement!"

If I were the hypothetical "average" citizen of, well let's pick
the height of the McCarthy era, say 1957?, I may have composed
a very similar paragraph:

"'Lance,' and other members of the homosexual movement do not
respresent the mainstream.  They are a fringe group that offends
almost all other decent citizens.  I may sound sexually permissive
in my articles, but I think any homosexual who seduces a man should
go to prison.  The homosexuals have done and continue to do a great
deal of harm to the decent citizens of our country!"
[Or replace all references to homosexuality with refs to communists.]
I said specifically in my earlier message that I would be willing
to debate the issue of crossgenerational sexuality on rational
terms.  I again make that offer.

I also request that you examine what bothers you about cross-generational
sexuality and tell me so that I can either change my opinion or
explain to you why I disagree with you.

Perhaps you will decide not to discuss this matter because you
feel you already have made up your mind on the matter.  But I will
await your response rather than attempting to predict your
behavior.

I would not attempt to say that there are not some very important
issues of power and consent which enter into a careful examination
of crossgenerational sexuality, as well as of any kind of
sexuality.  I will attempt to discuss those issues, beginning with
excerpts from some of NAMBLA's literature.  I will do so at the
request of several individuals who have sent me mail.  I also would
like to mention that at least one other NAMBLA member reads this
list, unbeknownst to me until that person sent me mail after I
gave my first flame.

By the way, I'm 21.  I've made love with people ranging in age from
15 to 56, although I do not regard either age as a limit.
I've been making love with older men since I was 14 (mostly *my* choice).
It's easy for people to get worried about their image as a group,
about getting associated with "subversive" types like NAMBLA.
But the fact remains that thousands of boys seek out sex with men
and girls seek out sex with women, as well as vice versa.  We must
be very careful not to deny youth and child sexuality.  Our present
society is sexually-repressive enough to deny even most adult
sexuality.  The only way these attitudes can begin to change is
through open dialogue and understanding of the pertinent issues.

					Will Doherty
					decvax!bbncca!wdoherty

PS: I guess I should make it absolutely clear that my
views in no way represent the views of my employers.
