Sexual Preference Policies
gbh@hopd3.UUCP
11/11/83
Does anyone know anything about the history/origin of AT&T's
sexual preference policy?

I work for AT&T Bell Laboratories and am interested in finding
out what spurred AT&T to adopt its Sexual Preference Policy,
primarily because I would like to see Bell Laboratories adopt
a similar policy.  I am also aware that ABI ED&D has a Sexual
Preference Policy. In fact, all employees were made aware of
it through the form of a desk-to-desk notice which someone
routed my way.

I have talked to my affirmative action counselor about the matter,
and he told me Bell Laboratories would probably not adopt such a
policy unless there was some legal precedence to do so. Was such
a legal precedence set with AT&T?

I would appreciate any information about the history/origin of
either of the above policies. I would also be interested in
hearing from employees of non-AT&T companies who have adopted
sexual preference policies or are in the process of adopting such
a policy. Information as to why your company decided to adopt
such a policy would be very useful to me.

				Greg Howard
				AT&T Bell Laboratories
				Dept. 59221 Room 3B-430
				Crawfords Corner RD
				Holmdel, NJ   07733
				(201) 949-3837

				hopd3!gbh

-----------------------------------------------------------------

kinn@ihu1e.UUCP (Kevin Kinnear)
11/12/83
Forwarded for box9294

I believe AT&T Bell Laboratories has a policy prohibiting discrimination on the
basis of sexual preference.  I don't work for AT&T BTL, but many of my
friends do and one of them checked it out (Okay, friend, you know who you are
speak up!).  I work for AT&T Western Electric, though, and I have a little
story about Western's policy, the moral of which is, I guess, "Easier said than
done."

When I first started working here, I was interested in finding out about a
policy to protect my job.  I found out about The Policy first through
Western's "Feedback" mechanism.  I was relieved--I had worked a long time to
get where I was and did not want to see that thrown away because of someone's
prejudice.

After a year or so I did some flaming on the net that revealed my sexual
preference under my own name.  I thought that since I was protected by The
Policy it would not matter if my boss found out.

When my boss found out, he came to my office, said that he had heard people
were talking about an article on the net, and ask if I had indeed written it.
When I admitted that I had, he said that it was okay, and that he only wanted
to make sure that people were not making things up about me.  He explained
that he did not have a problem with my being Gay, that The Policy was clear,
and that he did not want to hear another word about it.  I could tell from
this that he was not comfortable with it.

My next boss, a new promotee, said that as a peer he had always had respect
for me and my work, and that he was surprised to find out how low I was rated.
To me this sounded like discrimination, but what could I do?  I certainly
cannot prove that I was discriminated against because of sexual preference,
but it sure seemed like it.

The point of the story is that while we have The Policy to protect us, it is
still easy and probably common to discriminate against us.

Now you know why I sign
box9294

-----------------------------------------------------------------

jeffy@bnl.UUCP (Jeff Mattson)
11/16/83
Discrimination can take many forms.  Especially in a company that does
a lot a work in projects, and the project leader gets to pick those
who'll be working with him, popularity is very important.  And I've
heard that in some circles it's unpopular to be gay.
