Alan Turing as a departure for rambl
notes@ucbcad.UUCP
11/01/83
#R:yale-com:-229900:ucbesvax:32500003:000:4161
ucbesvax!turner    Oct 31 21:02:00 1983

Re: DeBenedictus' questions on Turing's "chemical castration", etc.

The article I read was not specific on this point.  I imagine there where
ways to simply suppress male sex-drives--I would be horrified but not
surprised if such techniques were derived from Nazi concentration-camp
research on the subject (that being one "final solution" under consider-
ation at the time.)  Certainly the OSS had captured documents to this
effect.

As for the specific charges, I am still unclear.  There can be no doubt,
however, that there were provisions by then for dealing with intelligence
workers who concealed their homosexuality.  This was shortly after the
Kim Philby incident, where a handful of "moles" defected over the course
of a few years.  All of these defectors were gay, or thought to be gay.

So when they found out about Turing, they jumped to an obvious (but
certainly wrong) conclusion: that he was a likely candidate for defection,
if not a mole himself.  To prove otherwise, he had to undergo forms of
humiliation that would have sent many others packing off to the USSR.
The legal pretexts for his treatment are probably still on the books,
and take many forms in the U.S. as well: "lewd behavior", etc.

Some details of the history of the post-War intelligence community can be
found in last month's "Harper's", in the article on the Great Mole Contro-
versy.  One interesting sidelight is the relationship between the literary
academics of the 30's and the patterns of recruitment in British
intelligence.  While rife with avowed Communists, many of whom were gay
(Stephen Spender, et al.), this generation of essayists, novelists and
poets had considerable skill at subterfuge, and the rooting out of
ambiguity.  These were found to be excellent qualities in an intelligence
analyst.

And there, perhaps, the trap was set: young British gays, having nothing
more to lose in terms an image of masculinity that the public school
system both consecrated and undermined, chose to study literature.  The
sharpening of their subtle and clever minds with Marxist dialectic and
French poetry turned them into high-quality fodder for the spy mills. 
Then, faced with a choice between loyalty to a nation that rejected their
sexuality, and loyalty to a nation that seemed to embrace their old-
school-crowd ideology (and didn't give much of a hoot about their
sexuality), they defected.

The rather ambiguous value of gays as spies was evidenced by the radical
change of style that ensued among Russian intelligence operatives.  Prior
to Kim Philby's defection, there was a lot to the Boris Badonov stereotype
of the Russian spy: lurking around in the embassy wings in bulky black
trenchcoats was their trademark.  This changed under Philby (who is even
now, high in the KGB command, with the ear of Andropov).  Russians became
conspicuous by their excellent taste in clothes and cultivated manner--a
style no doubt derived from the Oxford literary set, and thus indirectly
from a tradition that probably dates back to Oscar Wilde.

And then, of course, there came the grosser backlash, probably reaching its
peak with Joe McCarthy's "Queers -> Commies" illogic.  The repercussions
are felt even today.  About a month ago, there were pickets here at the
U.C. Berkeley law school, Boalt Hall.  The CIA recruits heavily from
graduating classes of lawyers (the reasons should be clear from the fore-
going discussion), but still considers gays a security risk, supposedly
because they can be blackmailed into defecting.  The campus employment
office had an agreement with the university that it did not have to pro-
vide its facilities to employers who discriminated against gays.  Somehow,
a loophole was arranged for the CIA.  While recruiters did not actually
pursue their quarry on campus (they don't like the fuss that their
appearance kicks up at still-radical U.C. Berkeley) they DID make use of
employment-office computer files.

Well, I didn't mean to ramble on . . . in any case, it's interesting
to see Turing's persecution in historical perspective.  Perhaps someday
there will be a book about it all.
---
Michael Turner (ucbvax!ucbesvax.turner)
