reposting of earlier article that got 'lost'
msimpson@bbncca.ARPA (Mike Simpson)
10/18/83
	(apologies to anyone who has seen this article before.)

        Thank goodness for this turn of events. ( the creation of
the newsgroup 'net.motss'. )I was starting to think that it would
be easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than
for this news group to be created.  (No flames from net.religion,
please,...)

        I have two particular points of interest that I would
like to throw out on the net. 

        1) Interracial relationships have interested me for quite
some time (both of my aunts married white men, and I have a white
lover), but I have not found many people willing to discuss the
workings of same.  I have recently become aware of groups such as
Black and White Men Together, and am considering looking into
that particular one.  Anyone willing to bat this one around?

        2) So much of male gay life, particularly among young gay
males, revolves around bars.  I don't particularly enjoy bars,
being a non-drinker and not a fan of rock/disco music.
(Fortunately, however, I do like to dance.) Has anyone given
thought to how gay people can meet in a drug and alcohol-fre
environment?

		        -- cheers,
			   Mike Simpson
			   Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
			   Ten Moulton Street,
				   Cambridge, MA 02238 (USnail)
			   msimpson@bbn-unix (ARPA)
			   decvax!bbncca!msimpson (UUCP)
			   msimpson.bbn-unix@udel-relay (CSNET)
			   617-497-2819 (Ma Bell)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

keesan@bbncca.ARPA (Morris Keesan)
10/18/83
    This is not a reposting of my earlier reply, but rather a recomposing of
the same content, re: meeting in an alcohol-free environment.

    Given that the American culture has resulted in somewhat of a focus of
gay life around bars, and also given the status of homosexuals as a
"socially challenged" group, I was interested but not surprised to be told
that there is a greater incidence of alcoholism among homosexuals than in the
general population (Consider the parallel with other oppressed groups, notably
American Indians).  This came up when I asked a lesbian friend about the T-shirt
she was wearing, which said "The Boston Roundup" on it.  She explained that the
Boston Roundup is an annual gathering of gay members of Alcoholics Anonymous,
of which she is a member.  They rent Boston City Hall and have a dance.  People
come from all over (i.e. from at least as far away as Seattle).  Ergo, my
suggestion in response to your question about "how gay people can meet in a
drug and alcohol-free environment?" is to contact your local chapter of AA and
see if they know anything about a SIGGAY (or whatever).  I suspect that they
would be open to having non-alcoholics at their social events, if they hold
any besides the Roundup.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

