Have a good newsgroup...
keithe@teklabs.UUCP (Keith Ericson)
10/25/83
Hey out there!

I want to get my 2 cents worth in on net.motss before I unsubscribe
from the group. My own preference is definitely heterosexual; I won't
ever change. I do not condone homosexuality. I find it to be both
unnatural (nature intends intercourse for reproduction) and abnormal
(loosely translating, the norm - the majority - of people are not
homosexuals). But that's not what I'm here to talk about...

While I cannot condone homosexuality, neither can I condone the
censorship of ideas, whether in print, film, electronic, whatever. I
don't have the right to restrict your discussions; you don't have the
right to make me accept your opinions, or lifestyle. You have
the right to carry on discussion about any subject, including alternate
sexual preferences, and I have the right to
eliminate them from my own readership (and from that
of my minor children who do not yet have the capability - the maturity
- to properly judge the content).

I will defend the right for such forums to exist. Elimination of such
discussions is inexcuseable censorship. Besides,
will we ever learn that depriving someone of what they want - or think
they want - serves merely to increase the demand? Have we learned
nothing from, for example, the Prohibition Era?

For those sites with restrictive administrators (or administrators'
bosses), perhaps access to net.motss (and net.singles, and net.jokes,
and... and... and...) could be not eliminated but controlled, limited
to "off-hours" (whatever that means to computer programmers) much in
the way that games are on many sites. The precedent already exists in
many sites to allow employees access to facilities during evenings and
weekends for "g-jobs" and other employee-interest activities; why not
merely extend this to categories mentioned above?

Well, like the subject line says: have a good newsgroup. Goodbye.

keith ericson at teklabs

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncca.ARPA (Steve Dyer)
10/26/83
Progress will REALLY be made when we don't have people trumpeting
in public the fact that they don't intend to read this newsgroup.

Gawd.  The bible thumpers on one side, and the "I'm not gay, but"
liberals on the other.

Frankly, I think newsgroup preferences are strictly private matters
that should not be aired in any public forum, least of all USENET.
:-)

/Steve Dyer
decvax!bbncca!sdyer
