"Bearbaiters"...I'll tell them off too if they'll listen!
jrc@ritcv.UUCP (James R Carbin)
11/08/83
The main point that I see as overshadowing all others in how you respond to
"Bearbaiters" is simply this:

Are a few lines of rhetoric responding to articles in net.motss which discuss
the "wrongs of homosexuality" going to change the minds of these narrow-minded
individuals (yes, narrow minded as their first premise is that their God should
be my God) who post their irrelevant *ramblings* in this group.

I would hate to see this newsgroup either A] become engrossed in a controversy
that doesn't even belong in this news group (and give those individuals some
ammunition to support their warped viewpoint) or B] lose sight of the potential
good that can come from dialogue on a wide range of other issues which are of 
interest to homosexuals.  I understand that net.suicide has become a vast
wasteland because of irrelevant arguments.  (I don't subscribe so I have to
take that as second-hand information.)  A danger exists that a few "gay is
bad/abnormal/sin" proponents could generate so much controversial verbiage
in this group as others respond to their allegations that before long, only
the most stout hearty will be willing to continue to subscribe to the group.

Of course this is a public forum and anyone of you on the net can respond to
"Bearbaiters" as you see fit. I myself have sent MAIL on more than one occasion
stating my views.  This has the advantage of focusing on the individual rather
than the entire net.  Interestingly, not one of them ever had enough courage to
respond to me.  Of course,  in the case of  ...!guest  ...!anon  and ...!root
it is not possible to respond directly, although you may not be aware of it,
but you can send mail to ...!postmaster  at any site, and let the USENET
administrator at that site take care of the problem of who should receive the
message. (I understand that is not difficult for them to accomplish this as  
long as they have the  <!site.article-number> as a reference.)

To Jim Bray;  I received the impression that you felt that I was posting in
response to your article.  Sorry if I implied that was the case; my attitude
towards "Bearbaiters" existed long before the establishment of net.motss.
Actually to date, I believe that the responses to this type of intrusion have
been quite restrained.  If it sounded as if I were criticizing you, my apolo-
gies.  I'm concerned about what could happen.  Why give their *ramblings*
ANY credibility by taking the time to respond.  Recognition of their efforts 
might only serve to encourage them to continue.  I know where I stand on the
issue and I don't need any of their sermons to try to convince me otherwise.

Who is to say what the proper type of response should be?  Not me!  Like
foreign policy, it is easy to be a Monday morning quarterback.  But I still
feel that my suggestion about waiting a few hours or a day until you cool
down can't hurt, and it just might end up as beneficial to net.motss.

Well, I have had my say; I'll shut up and let's get back to the real purpose
of the group.  Let the critics of homosexuality have their discussions in
net.religion, or net.social, or net.flame.  There, I can turn them off!
(Amen   :-)   :-)   :-)   Sorry, but I couldn't help myself!!!!!)

as ever,

j.r.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

