AIDS  -- LONG FLAME, BEWARE!
ziegler@lzmi.UUCP
10/20/83
>I agree with Jerry Falwell's solution to AIDS:
>
>"one man, one woman, for one lifetime".
>
>Remember that when you go to bed with your prick in somebody's
>asshole.

I wish you had the nerve to put your own name on that article,
rather than logging into a public account to do it.  I would have
prefered to respond to you personally, rather than burden the net
with my flaming, particularly since opinions like yours are best
left ignored.  But I feel I must respond to this one.

I presume that, since you mention Jerry Falwell, you choose to align
yourself with that group of people who call themselves "The Moral
Majority" and consider themselves to be "Born-Again" Christians.  I
do not wish to attack Rev. Falwell here, nor make any assaults on
his teachings or followers.  I flame at the person who submitted the
above article, and no other.

Please read carefully the teachings of Christ as found in the New
Testament of your Bible.  I am a Christian, and am appalled at the
hateful, abusive, bigoted and self-serving things that some people
do in His name.  You in particular have demonstrated that you have
little or no concept of what Christianity is all about.  I will not
quote you scriptures or give biblical references, since you've
probably heard them all and still not learned.  If you do not live
your life in accordance with His teachings, if you twist His words
to suit your own meanings, if invoke His name to belittle, offend,
or mislead others, then your faith is a distorted one at best.  I
recommend that you check very carefully to see who your true master
is.  Lucifer is, after all, the angel of light.

I have two suggestions:

	1) For our sake, please keep your obviously inflamatory
	   statements off the net.  We don't need them.  I welcome
	   free and open discussion where everyone can speak (type?)
	   his or her own opinion, but cheap shots taken from behind
	   the cover of a public login are counter-productive.

	2) For your own sake, learn more of Him whom you claim to
	   follow.  You may be surprised.

Of course, my opinions are entirely my own and have nothing to do
with the opinions or policies of any organization I belong to or
company that employs me.

		Joe Ziegler
		...ihnp4!hogpc!pegasus!ziegler

-----------------------------------------------------------------

msimpson@bbncca.ARPA (Mike Simpson)
10/21/83
	Bravo to ihnp4!hogpc!pegasus!ziegler, and shame on sfucmpt!guest.


        I merely wish to point up another fallacy in
sfucmpt!guest's argument.  His statement is clearly contrary to
the stated purposes of this discussion group, since it is a
'sneak-attack' diatribe against homosexuality.  And without
getting emotional or irrational, I would note that thirty percent
of all AIDS victims are heterosexual.  So you could be straight
and totally faithful and still get AIDS.

        Please, let us not spread in this discussion group the
same ignorances, fears and prejudices that have been told and
retold again.

		        -- cheers,
			   Mike Simpson
			   Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
			   Ten Moulton Street,
				   Cambridge, MA 02238 (USnail)
			   msimpson@bbn-unix (ARPA)
			   decvax!bbncca!msimpson (Usenet)
			   msimpson.bbn-unix@udel-relay (CSNET)
			   617-497-2819 (Ma Bell)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

