Reposting: current Massachusetts legislation of interest
keesan@bbncca.ARPA (Morris Keesan)
10/18/83
    The following is from the Thursday, October 6, 1983 edition of the
Arlington Advocate (Arlington, Mass.).  Reprinted without permission,
but apparently not copyrighted.


			    _S_t_a_t_e _H_o_u_s_e _N_e_w_s

    GAY  RIGHTS  (H 6665):  House 75-71, gave final approval and sent to
the Senate, the bill making it unlawful to discriminate on the basis  of
sexual  preference.   The  measure would prohibit discrimination against
gays in housing, employment and other areas.  The  measure  included  an
amendment  excluding  two-  and  three-family  occupied  homes  from the
legislation.  Another amendment provides that an employer  can  fire  or
refuse  to  hire  an  employee,  whose  job  involves working with minor
children, if that employee has  been  convicted  of  a  crime  involving
physical  or  sexual  abuse  of a minor child of either sex.
    Supporters  argued  the  bill  is  landmark  legislation  which will
finally give gays equal protection under the law.  They  noted  it  will
allow  the  Massachusetts  Commission Against Discrimination to consider
discrimination cases against gays and said it is time gay citizens  have
the same rights everyone enjoys. 
    Some  opponents  said  the  bill  condones  gays  and will result in
Massachusetts becoming a "gay haven." They said "sexual preference" is a
broad term and would include not only gays but would protect people with
bizzare [sic] sexual practices.  Others said the bill is  not  necessary
because there have been no examples of discrimination against gays. 
    A "Yea" vote is for the bill.  A "Nay" vote is against it.
    Rep. John Cusack voted no, Rep. Mary  Jane  Gibson voted yes.

    MINORS  (H  6665):   House  approved  106-40, a gay rights amendment
allowing an employer to fire an employee who engages in  illicit  sexual
activity  with  a  minor  person  of the same sex under 18 years of age.
    Amendment  supporters  argued this is a safeguard which will protect
children and allow the firing of someone who has gay  sex  with  someone
under 18. 
    Opponents  said  the amendment is unfair because it singles out gays
and does not apply to  sexual  activity  with  a  minor  person  of  the
opposite  sex.   They  claimed  the amendment is vague, does not require
that the person be convicted by a court, and does not  say  who  decides
that the person engaged in illicit sexual activity. 
    A  "Yea"  vote is for the amendment allowing the employer to fire an
employee.  A "Nay" vote is against the amendment. 
    Cusack voted yes, Gibson voted no.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

