Discussion about Gay Teachers
mwolf@yale-com.UUCP (Anne G. Wolf)
11/09/83
Some time ago, people started worrying about whether teachers were gay.
It was thought that gay teachers might be "bad models" for children.
This brought up a few other questions in my mind, and I would like to
know what netters think of them.

Please reply by posting things to the net.
(Summarizing responses would be impossible without biasing the result.)

Please sign your reply with at least a distinctive pseudonym,
if not your real name (even if you are using a "guest" account).

Please try to make your follow-ups polite.
------ --- -- ---- ---- ---------- -------

My opinions are probably evident from my phrasing of these questions.
I cannot think of a way to phrase the questions neutrally, but those
with differing viewpoints are welcome to post follow-ups.

I apologize in advance for any spelling or grammatical errors.

1) If a person is applying for a job, is it generally the employer's
   business to know the sexual preference of the perspective employee?
   If not, are there any professions, such as teacher or CIA agent,
   for which it would be reasonable to ask for this information?
   If so, should gays be considered a minority for the purposes of
   Affirmative Action?

2) Should the behavior of teachers in the classroom be such that it is
   possible for students to determine the sexual preference of their
   teacher?

3) Does one's sexual preference have any relationship with the preferences
   of people with whom one came in contact as a child?  Do sexual
   practices or the likelihood of "coming out of the closet" have any
   relationship with the preferences of people with whom one came in
   contact as a child?

4) Organizations such as the Man-Boy Love Association seem to hold the
   view that sex between children and adults is acceptable.
   Although the existing statutory rape laws make this practice illegal,
   do people think that there are circumstances under which this would
   be alright?  (Let us assume that the child is under 15 and that the
   adult is over 21 years of age.)  Do the respective genders of the
   adult and child make a difference in this judgement?  Are there
   circumstances under which sex between a teacher and a pupil would be
   alright?

   Please DO NOT reply by mail.

        Mary-Anne Wolf (decvax!yale-comix!mwolf).

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncca.ARPA (Steve Dyer)
11/10/83
I've included Anne's questions when my answer didn't make the question
obvious.  When my comments refer to teachers, I'm thinking of K through
12th grade.

1.) An employer has no business asking about the sexual preferences
    of an employee, except perhaps in the case of security clearances,
    where the Govt. makes it its business to know EVERYTHING about an
    employee.  I hardly think that gays should be considered a minority
    for the purposes of Affirmative Action, but I feel that protection
    against discrimination in areas of housing and employment should be
    extended to gay people.

2) Should the behavior of teachers in the classroom be such that it is
   possible for students to determine the sexual preference of their
   teacher?

	I don't know what to make of this question.  Usually, teachers
	come across as sexually neutral in the classroom (does this make
	them 'neutrons'?)  I'd look crosseyed at anyone who made a big deal
	about sexual preference, regardless of orientation, since this isn't
	usually what the class is about.  Now, there are always male teachers
	who are somewhat effeminate and female teachers who are "mannish"--
	at times their students label them as "queer", regardless of the facts.
	This says nothing about their sexual orientation.

3) Does one's sexual preference have any relationship with the preferences
   of people with whom one came in contact as a child?  Do sexual
   practices or the likelihood of "coming out of the closet" have any
   relationship with the preferences of people with whom one came in
   contact as a child?

	I don't know.  I know I don't like the question.  I know
	many gay people who never knew another gay person until they
	were well out of school.  Some people know they're gay at a VERY
	early age, others don't 'come out' until much later, often after
	having had many heterosexual affairs.  I find the "infectious"
	theory of homosexuality completely repugnant, mainly because it is
	usually proposed by people who have an axe to grind against gays.
	It also does not jibe with my own experience, but that's too small
	a sample to mean much scientifically.

	The seduction of a child might have profound effects on his
	psychic/social/sexual development, though I won't begin to
	second-guess what that might be.  But we're not talking about
	seduction (ARE WE?)  We're talking about fine, upstanding,
	effective teachers who just happen to be gay.  Listen--you'd
	be surprised at the number of teachers who are gay, and you'd
	be surprised at how ordinary they are, except that they're
	scared SHITLESS of losing their jobs.  The waste of spirit
	is such a shame here.

4) WHAT THE HELL DOES THE NORTH-AMERICAN MAN-BOY LOVE ASSOCIATION
   HAVE TO DO WITH TEACHERS???  I am not in favor of teacher-student
   sex, regardless of the sex, age, or sexual preference of either (any?)
   of the participants.  Sorry, Anne, I'm **trying** to keep calm here,
   really, I mean I appreciate your openness and willingness to ask
   questions.  But this question reflects a real misunderstanding of
   gay people and gay teachers.  Why would they be any more likely to
   have sex with minors?  Such an assertion is patently false.
   The quesion of NAMBLA is an interesting 'hot potato' for both 
   straights and gays, but it deserves separate attention, and I
   REFUSE to muddy up the discussion of gay teachers with an irrelevant
   issue.


/Steve Dyer
decvax!bbncca!sdyer

-----------------------------------------------------------------

alle@ihuxb.UUCP (Allen England)
11/11/83
1) Other than for security checks, I don't think anyone need know
   anothers sexual preference (and security checks, only because
   they want to know everything).

2) Teachers should not be displaying sexual behavior in the class
   room ever.

3) I do not believe there is conclusive evidence regarding how
   sexual preferences are determined.  Certainly there is no
   evidence supporting that exposure to homosexuals will lead
   to homosexuality (or heterosexuality for that matter).

4) Sex between adults and children is *NOT* proper, EVER!!!!

Allen England at AT&T Bell Laboratories, Naperville, IL
ihnp4!ihuxb!alle

-----------------------------------------------------------------

jrc@ritcv.UUCP (James R Carbin)
11/12/83
) If a person is applying for a job, is it generally the employer's busi-
   ness to know the sexual preference of the perspective[sic] employee? If not,
   are there any professions, such as teacher or CIA agent, for which it
   would be reasonable to ask for this information?  If so, should gays be 
   considered a minority for the purpose of Affirmative Action?
     The U.S. military has for years asked the question, "Are you a homo-
     sexual or have you ever had homosexual relations?"  As a veteran,
     while I was not involved in such activities, I think the amount of
     homosexual activity in our military is far greater than most would
     want to acknowledge. If discovered, a general discharge is imminent for
     those involved.  The rationale is that homosexuality would undermine
     morale. I know of some veterans who are gay who did not have their first
     homosexual experiences until they had completed their military service
     and received their honorable discharge. CIA agents, etc. are supposedly
     more prone to blackmail. If a homosexual is "out of the closet," then how
     can they be blackmailed?  In many states, it is not possible to become
     a member of the bar if you are homosexual.  HA HA - I know one gay lawyer,
     and for that matter, a gay doctor.  Now teachers.  As many educated gays
     are responsible individuals who sincerely want to give something very spe-
     cial namely themselves, to further the betterment of society by teaching in
     the public schools, the question of sexual preference is not germane.
     Would you ask a married male or female teacher in what kind of sexual
     activities they indulge?  NO!  Then why ask a single person?  (Besides
     some married people cheat on their spouse with a homosexual partner.) 
     Should gays be included in Affirmative Action?  NO!  But neither should
     they experience any sort of discrimination just because they are gay.

2) Should the behavior of teachers in the classroom be such that it is possi-
   ble for students to determine the sexual preference of their teacher?
     If by this question, you mean, "Should the teacher ever bring up the
     issue of their sexual preference,"  the answer is obviously NO! whether
     it be in or outside of the classroom.  But suppose for example the teach-
     er is unmarried and over 30, then many in our society begin to "suspect"
     that the individual may be homosexual.  This is particularly true if the
     individual does not date MOTOS.  By circumstantial evidence, many students
     (at least in high school) will ask the question whether their teacher may
     well be homosexual.  Would you ask that homosexual teachers periodically
     date MOTOS for sake of appearance? If this is true, each state legislature
     will have to determine how often and how such activity can be verified.
     It would not be unusual for a married teacher to mention their spouse
     or family, or students might see the teacher's spouse or family at a
     school function.  It would be highly unlikely that a homosexual teacher
     (even if they were out of the closet) would talk with their students 
     about any of their gay friends nor would they have any of their gay
     associates involved in any school activity.  By the absence of apparent
     MOTOS activity, students could begin to wonder about the sexual
     orientation of a teacher even though this teacher never overtly said
     or did anything that could be considered inappropriate.

3) Does one's sexual preference have any relationship with the preferences
   of people with whom one came in contact as a child?  Do sexual
   practices or the likelihood of "coming out of the closet" have any
   relationship with the preferences of people with whom one came in
   contact as a child?
     While environment has to be a factor in the development of any aspect
     of an individual, I know of several homosexuals who feel (from rather
     to very strongly) that they have had homosexual feelings from the
     time of their earliest sexual awakening. It is my own opinion that it
     would be the rare case in which an individual would be converted to be
     a homosexual because they were exposed to homosexual teachers.  For
     someone to become homosexual, in my opinion, it takes much more than
     just contact with homosexuals.  I even wonder if there really exists
     a significant population of homosexuals who "choose" that lifestyle.
     As it is often a difficult life I doubt that many consciously choose it.
     Whether someone is out of the closet or not I really don't think
     is influenced to any great extent by whom they have had contact with
     whether it be in their childhood or later in their life.  Why would
     it?  If in your childhood your house was next door to a lawyer, would
     you have had a greater likelihood to have to become an attorney?

4) Organizations such as the Man-Boy Love Association seem to hold the
   view that sex between children and adults is acceptable.  Although
   the existing statutory rape laws make this practice illegal, do people
   think that there are circumstances under which this would be alright [sic]?
   (Let us assume that child is under 15 and that the adult is over 21
   years of age.)  Do the respective genders of the adult and child make
   a difference in this judgement?  Are there circumstances under which sex
   between a teacher and a pupil would be alright [sic]?
     Whether we are talking about a MOTOS or a MOTSS situation, UNDER NO
     CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD A TEACHER HAVE SEXUAL RELATIONS WITH A PUPIL. I
     am perplexed with this question.  Is it included as a legitimate ques-
     tion or for its shock value?  How many teachers are not over 21 years
     of age?  Very few!  I deplore the Man-Boy Association, an organization
     which has done inexcusable harm to the gay-movement, and an organization
     whose members represent the views of a very small percentage of homo-
     sexuals. I question the inclusion of such a question in a survey about
     gay teachers.  Sexual activities of any kind whether MOTSS or MOTOS can
     not be condoned between a teacher and their students. Unfortunately
     it is this kind of question with potentially emotionally charged rhetoric
     which may blind us to the overall question. By its inclusion, it tends to
     paint all homosexuals as perverts & child molesters.  The members of that
     assoc. represent only a very small fraction of the homosexual community.
     I think that the vast majority of gays would share the same feeling
     of repugnance towards that assoc. as any cross-section of our society.

as ever,

j.r.              {allegra,seismo}!rochester!ritcv!jrc

-----------------------------------------------------------------

ka@hou3c.UUCP (Kenneth Almquist)
11/15/83
1) Of course it's not reasonable for employers to concern themselves
   with the  sexual preferences of their employees.  I can't think of
   any cases where this would be related to job performance.  I have
   some reservations about affirmative action, but I suppose homosexuals
   are as good candidates for affirmative action as any other group that
   is discriminated against.


2) Probably not; I can't conceive of very many instances when teacher
   would be called upon to discuss their sexual preferences with their
   students.

3) The evidence seems to suggest that sexual preferences are, if not innate,
   then determined at a very early age.  All the evidence seems to be
   against the notion that sexual preferences can be encouraged by association
   with other individuals with particular preferences.

   The question about "coming out of the closet" is more interesting.  I
   would suggest that the ability of an individual to deal with his sexual
   desires, whether homosexual or hetrosexual, depends to a large extent
   upon the individual's sence of self worth, but that the existance of
   positive role models would certainly make it easier for an individual
   to "come out of the closet".  This is beginning to sound like a Psych.
   term paper.  I guess the point I am trying to make is that it is impor-
   tant for people to learn to be able to make their own decisions in the
   face of social pressures, and that one way to learn this is to observe
   other people (e. g. self professed homosexuals) dealing with social
   pressure.  Additionally, I belive that people should encounter a varity
   of viewpoints on life.

4) I am not familiar with the "Man-Boy Love Association", but there are
   people who advocate the abolition of incest laws covering father-
   daughter relationships, so I am not surprised that such a group exists.
   Sexual relationships between parents and children, or teachers and
   students, are by their very nature are not relationships based on
   mutual consent.  The power a parent or teacher has over a child makes
   the concept of consent essentially meaningless.  For that reason, such
   relationships can be very damaging.

					Kenneth Almquist
