Coming Out, Homoeroticism, and stats
debenedi@yale-com.UUCP (Robert DeBenedictis)
10/14/83
Recently (Oct 11 18:40:00 1983), Michael Turner (ucbvax!ucbesvax.turner)
asked:
	Just what proportion of of people out 
	there (in netland) are gay or lesbian?

I think a more appropriate question would be:
	What proportion of people on the net are out 
	enough to tell  net.motss  that they are gay?

Also, since there aren't any reliable statistics on the number of people
who read/participate in USENET, it will be difficult to determine what
proportion of NETters are gay.


Coming Out, Homoeroticism, & Statistics:
    1) What's the best (you define best) way to come out?
       Who should one come out to?  close friends? hallmates? the milkman?
       People who've come out:  Why?  and are you glad you did?
       People who haven't come out:  Why?

    2) Are  decvax!wivax!dyer  and  decvax!bbncca!sdyer  the same person?
       I know they both go by the name "Steve Dyer," but I just want to
       make sure that they are indeed the same person.
    
    3) Occasionally I hear song lyrics that I am SURE have a gay theme.
       Examples:
	   "Coming out" by Diana Ross
	   "Ain't Even Done With the Night (?)" by John Cougar (his FIRST hit)
	   "Rough Boys" by Pete Townshend
	   "Purple Haze" by Jimi Hendrix 
	       (ONLY inasmuch as "'Scuse Me While I Kiss The Sky" sounds
		just like "'Scuse Me While I Kiss This Guy")
	   "The Right Profile" by The Clash (talks about Montgomery Cliff)
	   "Behind Blue Eyes" by The Who
	    etc.  (PLEASE add to this list if you can!)

       Granted, many of the conflicts gay people go through are just acute 
       versions of what people in general go through, e.g., self-disclosure.

       Even more generally, I'd like to discuss homoeroticism (NOT homo-
       sexuality, per se) in Popular Culture.  For example, the relation-
       ship between Kirk and Spock in STARTREK; particularly the episode
       in which Spock MUST return to Vulcan.  STARTREK is only one example,
       others include BATMAN & ROBIN, SUPERMAN (a guy who occasionally 
       dresses up in a costume and is "not like mortal men"), MY FAVORITE 
       MARTIAN (Bill Bixby hides this guy in his house, none of the neighbors 
       must find out!), and THE INCREDIBLE HULK (an incredibly guilt-ridden
       man who occasionally gets so frustrated that his gruesome, but gentle,
       side emerges).

    3) STATISTICS:
       Since late August, gay related issues have been discussed on USENET.
       Here are some statistics.

       Newsgroup	# of gay-related articles	# of blocks generated
       ---------	-------------------------       ---------------------
       news.group     	60				139
       singles     	48				104
       flame     	15				39
       news     	15				23
       religion      	3				17
       women      	3				7
       general      	2				2
       TOTAL:		146 articles			331 blocks

       Over 75 different people submitted articles.
       If you can think of any other interesting statistics that could
       be generated, let me know.  Myself, I'm gonna write a 7 - 10 page
       paper called "Censorship and the Electronic Press" for my POPULAR 
       CULTURE AND MASS COMMUNICATIONS IN AMERICA (American Studies 212a) 
       course.  If anyone knows of any books which discuss censorship as
       it relates to the "Communications Revolution,"   tell me.

Well, that's it folks. 
I welcome your comments (publicy and privately).

Robert DeBenedictis   (decvax!yale-comix!debenedi)
P.O. Box 1889
Yale Station
New Haven, CT   06520

REMEMBER: You are what keeps this group alive -- Participate.
