Society of GAY & LESBIAN Composers Membership Drive
gandet@mars.jpl.nasa.gov (Tom Gandet)
10/25/89
               SOCIETY of GAY and LESBIAN COMPOSERS
                         Membership Drive
 
     With this, the fifth consecutive year of the superb concert
series of music by SGLC composers, the SGLC is conducting a
membership drive.  It has been five years of stylistically diverse
"music-for-the-ear" performed with accomplished musicality.  The
SGLC concerts have been an invaluable performance outlet for its
member composers' music, and the performers have responded to this
music with enthusiasm and committment.  Audiences have discovered
a venue for new, consistently interesting music of broad expressive
range and consistent craftsmanship; attendance has grown steadily. 
 
     This season, SGLC sponsored the Poetry Project, a dazzling
diversity of different vocal settings of the same poem by SGLC
composers.  Earlier this year, SGLC published the second Catalog
of members' compositions and has distributed the Catalog to musical
organizations around the country, fulfilling the Society goal of
disseminating its members' music to potential performers.
 
 
 
                      SGLC Statement of Goals
 
     To provide composers with the opportunity to share ideas
 
        To encourage the composition of music that conveys
               the attitudes, ideals, and uniqueness
                  of the gay and lesbian cultures
 
      To provide opportunities for performances of this music
 
         To disseminate this music to potential performers
 
 
     Membership is open to all composers, regardless of style or
medium or geographical location, and to performers and other
persons who would like to support the goals of the Society.
 
     Annnual membership dues are $40.00.  A monthly newsletter is
mailed to all members.  For more information, please write via
USSnail ONLY (please, no e-mail) to:
 
                     SGLC
                     2261 Market Street, No. 459
                     San Francisco, CA 94114

Tom Gandet				Telos/Jet Propulsion Lab - NASA
gandet@mars.jpl.nasa.gov		Work: (818) 351-2341 x239

-----------------------------------------------------------------

