Diseased Pariah News #3
jfh@netcom.com (Jack Hamilton)
06/17/91
I picked up my copy of the latest Diseased Pariah News last weekend.  This
is the first issue that the new editor has put out by himself, and I was
glad to see that it is very good. 

The "lead story", after the pinup picture of a soc.motsser, is about the
death of the former editor, Tom Shearer.  It was one of the funnier
articles I had read in a while, and in extremely poor taste.

The second article is part of a new series, "How I Got AIDS".  Very few
people really know, of course, but the gimmick here is for the author to
recount episodes where he *might* have gotten it.  He recommends against
using zucchini for anything but cooking, by the way.

A column on "18 Phrases That Turn Our Stomachs Worse Than AZT".

A report on lubricants, written by Buzz Bense.

A report on hi-cal cooking, with recommendations on what to serve and what
not to serve.  (Incidentally, the cover story in the food section of the
San Francisco Examiner one day this week was about cooking for people with
AIDS.  One of the people interviewed said that she loves cooking for PWA's
- she gets to use all the heavy cream and fat that she's not allowed to eat
anymore).

"My Mother is a Channel for John Sununu!"

"Further Adventures of Captain Condom! #3"  (and they've having a contest
to give him a new hair style, which he needs badly.)

Porn Potato is on vacation this week, and his column was written this time
by Smut Squash.  He likes "More of a Man" from All Worlds Video.

And there's more, much more.  I don't think I'm giving anything way by
revealing the titles - most of the charm of the magazine is in its style
(although the content is also good).

One year subscription us$7, us$7 in Canada, us$18 international, from
Forge-of-God Press, POBox 31431, San Francisco, California  94131  USA.
You must say that you are over 18 years old.  They also have t-shirts,
buttons, and Captain Condom's Original Party Pack.
-- 
Jack Hamilton         jfh@netcom.com         apple!netcom!jfh

-----------------------------------------------------------------

