Collegian article on James Whitehead
RWC102@PSUVM (R. W. F. Clark)
04/06/89
In the Collegian, the local news rag, this article appeared
on the front page.

To be frank, I was hoping that I could stem the controversy
before it hit the papers; I brought the article to the attention
of the administration within minutes of its having been posted
and, as the article states, it was cancelled within an hour.

I will not address the myriad errors inherent in any press
commentary on the net; I'll leave that to a letter to the
editor, perhaps.

Or perhaps not.  I'm rapidly becoming sick of the whole
affair.

Anyone who wishes to comment on this article may address letters
to the editor to:

Diane A. Davis         or       Kirsten Lee Swartz
Managing Editor                 Opinion Editor
The Daily Collegian
University Park, PA 16802

All formalities aside, the front-page Collegian article, as
it appeared in the morning paper distributed just an hour
ago.

----
JORDAN'S RESPONSE TO COMPUTER MESSAGE MEETS LGSA'S ANGER

By Caroline Humer
Collegian Staff Writer


University President Bryce Jordan's response to an electronic message
threatening gay men and lesbians--sent by a University student through-
out an international computer network--has outraged members of the
Lesbian and Gay Student Alliance.

The message, which asked, "Why should one kill homosexuals?," was sent
on the morning of March 28 from a University student computer account
on a computer network system connecting government, academic, research
and commercial networks in the United States, Canada, [sic] and some
foreign countries.

Hours after the message was sent, replies appeared on the computer
message board [sic].

The one-page computer entry stated, in part, "(Gays and lesbians) are
an embarrassment to society to start.  Why is it that humans are the
only species to have such a relatively large percentage of these
mentally disturbed members?"

Jordan issued a statement yesterday afternoon, that read in part,
"We are aware that one of our students has misused University
computer facilities to transmit a repugnant and threatening
message toward gays and lesbians.

"This and any misuse of University computers for such purposes
is inappropriate."

LGSA members said they were disappointed with Jordan's statement
because they said it circumvented homophobia, and instead focused
on the misuse of a computer.

LGSA Internal Affairs Director Jeffrey McCarty said he would have
hoped that after a death threat on 10 percent of the University
population--the estimated percentage of gay men and lesbians on
campus--Jordan would include a statement of moral obligation.

"The administration is reacting rather poorly because they cannot
and will not publicly and openly support gay and lesbian students,"
said Mike Mobley, president of LGSA.

Director of Public Information Bill Mahon said the University moved
with speed to remove the student's access to the computer account
and to meet with members of the Lesbian and Gay Student Alliance.
The case has been referred to the Office of Conduct Standards where
the "fullest possible sanctions" will be enacted, Mahon said.

OCS Director Donald Suit said he is unsure about the University's
plan of action.

James Whitehead (junior-division of undergraduate studies), who
claims he posted the original message, said the University sus-
pended access to his account last week.  He defended the computer
entry as expression that is well within his rights, saying yes-
terday that he is as entitled to his opinion as people offended
by the passage are to theirs.

"I have received support for my right to post what I want," White-
head said, adding "Nobody said I was wrong."

Suit said he is consulting with University lawyers about whether
a computer message is covered under the right to free speech, or
if it qualifies as misuse of a University facility.

Whitehead also contended that the University cannot protect groups
by restraining other people's rights.  Whitehead said officials
told him they did not want such literature emerging from the
University.  Officials "said nothing serious would really happen"
to him, he said.

However Suit said that it was too early to make such a determin-
ation and that "serious" should be defined.

The homophobic message constitutes harassment and falls under the
University's acts of intolerance, Suit said.  A charge can be
further sanctioned if it is motivated by an act of intolerance,
Suit said.  The University is considering several preventative
measures, including institution of a program on BITNET [_sic_, PSUVM
is correct], the computer system--that would warn users of ramifications of
posting discrimanatory messages and require them to agree to
compliance.

However, he said the University's choice of procedure hinges on
whether such messages fall under the first amendment.

A person at the computer center erased the original message from
the University's system one hour after it was sent, McCarty said.

The University sent a message on BITNET [_sic_, the Usenet] asking others
connected to the system to erase the message from their system, McCarty
said.  He said when he spoke with Vice Provost and Vice President Robert
Dunham on Monday, Dunham said the University did not wish to rush into
making a statement.

----

fc

-----------------------------------------------------------------

