'Queerboy alert'
hooner@athena.mit.edu (Hoon Ko)
02/12/88
Just to clarify MY position, since this all started as a response
to an article I posted:

1. I am NOT sexist. I don't think there's automatically/necessarily
any link between being gross and having sex appeal.
2. *I* don't call people gross. I was just quoting one of the
   friends I went with.
3. I *LOVED* Broadcast News, thought it was one of the best movies
   I'd ever seen. That was pretty clear in the original posting-
   I had no idea why anyone wouldn't like the movie, and 
   so I posted the reasons why my friends didn't, thinking maybe
   someone out there agreed with them, maybe for those reasons,
   and could explain to me what I couldn't understand from my
   friends.
4. Thanks to Mike P and Joe irregardless for clarifying my point-
   Eric Townsend didn't read the article closely enough. It was
   pretty clear that I didn't agree whatsoever with those three
   points- I'll forward email to you, Eric, if you want- all the
   people who sent me email about my posting tried to explain why 
   they *DIDN'T* like the movie.
5. I don't think Joe was really that out of line.
6. If you have different standards and think that he was,
   don't judge MIT by Joe. In fact, I don't think you should
   correlate the school he's from with his comments. He doesn't
   work for MIT administration after all.
7. Re Eric's posting about the movie revolving around ethics and
   not sex appeal: the movie tried to show how in the intense
   pressure of broadcast news, strong feelings of comradery
   from getting the news out on time etc can be confused for
   love and passion. Hence someone like Holly Hunter who
   is so incredible behind the editing and the producing
   would be very respected and by some confused coworkers
   would be wanted because they confused such respect with
   romance.
8. ONE MORE TIME: I LOVED BROADCAST NEWS, I LOVED HOLLY HUNTER,
   THOUGHT SHE WAS VERY APPEALING IN THE MOVIE, TOTALLY RELATED
   TO HER CHARACTER.

I think that does it ... oh, some other stuff:

My name is Hoon , my last name is Ko, and I really don't think
it's relevant, Eric. Just call me hooner.

Mitchell Lerner was just as out of line as Joe was, yet I see
no flames for his similar comments.

-Hoon Ko
 hooner@athena.mit.edu
