The persistance of homosexuality in a gene pool
mwfolsom@hydra.unm.edu (Mike Folsom)
07/31/90
In article <8250@pitt.UUCP> rozin@speedy.cs.pitt.edu.UUCP (Roman Rozin) writes:
>
>It is not necessary to know the particular mechanism, to know that there
>is *some* mechanism at work there.  There are cases of homosexual behavior
>in lower animals too.  For examle, lesbian gulls, described in
>R.L. Trivers's _Social Evolution_.

I was just about to add this to the discussion.  There ARE cases of what
can be called homosexuality in various groups of animals other than man.  
I have heard of reports in cattle ( can you imagine buying a $20,000 gay
bull ) and insects. Infact there is a mutation called "rape" in the 
fruit fly where a male tries to mount and copulate with another male.  
I really don't like the name "rape" for this mutation but it exists.  

To add my two cents.  I have been keeping an informal record fo MZ   
lesgay twins for years.  So far out of about 6 MZ twins I have found 
only one who "says" that his brother is straight. 

I'm starting to wonder if homosexuality isn't a mix of genetics and 
environment.  This is not my area but I've always wondered about
pheromones and if they have any involvement in the whole process.
I believe in some group of animals it has been shown that males and
females emit different pheromones.  WHAT IF ( and I admit its a big
if ) males usually are attracted to one set of pheromones, those 
of the females, and females to another set, those of the males.  If 
such a thing were true then any change in the human genome which 
caused a change in the ability to perceive a pheromone or, alternately,
any change in the genome that would cause an individual to be only 
attracted to "self" pheromone could affect their sexual orientation.  
In a similar vein if the change simply destroyed the ability to 
perceive a pheromone or caused an individual to be attracted to
all pheromones then they could be bisexual.  Since Kinsey (sp) said,
as I remember the numbers, that most people are bisexual then most
folks would "key in" on both "sets" of pheromones.  Which one 
attracted them the most would be the one that would "control" their
sexual orientation.  

Anyway, as I said this is not my area but I've been thinking about
this for some time.  Comments, corrections, etc -

Now, be kind!  

Mike F.  (mwfolsom@unmvm -=-or-=- mwfolsom@unmvm.unm.edu)  

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

david@gladys.UUCP (David Dalton)
07/31/90
>In article <8250@pitt.UUCP> rozin@speedy.cs.pitt.edu.UUCP (Roman Rozin) writes:

>Since Kinsey (sp) said,
>as I remember the numbers, that most people are bisexual then most
>folks would "key in" on both "sets" of pheromones.  Which one 
>attracted them the most would be the one that would "control" their
>sexual orientation.  

For AGES I have been looking for a study on pheromones and sexual
orientation, but so far I haven't found anything. It would appear to
be a really fruitful area for study. For example, we know that people
who lose their sense of smell (nasal polyps, brain problems, etc.)
often lose interest in sex.

But mainly the idea intrigues me because of one of my earliest
memories. I was about five years old. Our neighbors' washing machine
had broken down, and they were doing laundry in our basement. I
remember being in the basement alone and seeing their laundry, neatly
sorted, in piles on the floor. There were two teen-age daughters and
one teen-age son in the household. I didn't have the slightest
curiosity about the girls' clothing, but I was very curious about the
boy's. I picked up his jeans and sniffed them very thoroughly, and I
found it very exciting in a way that I did not at all understand. I
believe that, long before I understood sex and sexuality, this
experience showed that I was already thoroughly oriented toward males,
and that scent is an important cue. 

These sorts of things happen on a very low level, mostly beneath
consciousness, but I have tried to make myself as aware as possible of
my reactions to other people's scents. If someone I like walks by, I
often time my breathing to take in their scent. If someone I don't
like, or who I find repulsive in some way, walks by, I often hold my
breath so I won't have to smell them. If I like a woman, I do enjoy
her scent, but I don't find it erotically stimulating.

I've been helplessly in love with a co-worker for five years. He's
been dealing with a lot of stuff, but he's getting there. (Remember
this one, Jess?) I think that the smell of him in close quarters is
more tantalizing to me than the sight of him. And, to make things
really difficult, he's in my house a lot these days, and he does his
laundry here every week. I can't tell you what it does to me to come
in and find his tennis things in the laundry room, waiting for him to
come back and finish up. Or, when he house-sits for me, to come home
to the scent of him in my bed. Or hot and sweaty, moving a bookcase.
Or arriving after a long bicycle ride.

What sweet torture...
-- 
David Dalton	pacbell!gladys!david	mcnc!gladys!david

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sfm@cbnewsl.att.com (stephen.frank.mershon)
08/01/90
In article <1990Jul31.012219.3299@ariel.unm.edu>, mwfolsom@hydra.unm.edu (Mike Folsom) writes:
> 
>   [various speculation on possible factors in sexual orientation]

Much research has been done in this field.  If you are interested in
knowing what the experts say, send $1 and a large, self-addressed,
stamped envelope to PFLAG, P.O. Box 20308, Denver, CO 80220.  Ask for
the pamphlet "Why Is My Child Gay?".  This pamphlet summarizes the
views of 11 leading scientists and provides a reading list referencing
nine major published studies on the subject.

To summarize a few of the findings:

	- the exact causes of a particular orientation are unknown

	- orientation is likely the result of interaction of genetic,
		hormonal, and environmental factors

	- psychological and social influences alone cannot cause a particular
		orientation

	- a biological predisposition toward a particular orientation is
		present at birth in all people

	- orientation cannot be changed permanently through therapy


Steve Mershon
stephen.mershon@att.com

-----------------------------------------------------------------

jmast@unix.cis.pitt.edu (John M Allen)
08/02/90
In article <1990Jul31.012219.3299@ariel.unm.edu> mwfolsom@hydra.unm.edu
(Mike Folsom) writes:
>
>To add my two cents.  I have been keeping an informal record fo MZ   
>lesgay twins for years.  So far out of about 6 MZ twins I have found 
>only one who "says" that his brother is straight. 
>

   Being a gay man with an identical twin, I thought that I would add
my two cents worth.

   I think that part of the reason that there is not total concord
between the sexualities of MZ twins is that people are forgetting to
take some factors into account.  One of these is that the genotype
allows a range of phenotypes which could account for some of the
discrepencies.  Another complicating factor is that orientation is not
equivalent to sexual behavior.  My own situation is a case in point.

   I have had relationships with members of both sexes, but I have a
distinct preference for men.  As far as I know, my brother, J, has only
had one relationship and that is with his wife.  All other things being
equal, this could be explained by assuming that our genotype was for
bisexuality and various environmental influences pushed me toward the
homosexual and J toward the heterosexual end of the spectrum.  I think
that this would partially explain why it took me so long to come out
(at the age of 24).

   Some additional information changes the picture.  J joined the
Mormon Church during our freshman year in college.  A book I am reading
suggests that gay men who are trying to suppress their sexuality often
join fundamentalists religions because the clear demarcation between
good and evil helps them to maintain the demarcation between them and
their sexuality making it easier to objectify and then reject this part
of them.  That J once told me, "I thought I was gay for awhile, but
then I found religion," indicates that this may be the case here.

   I think that S, J's wife, recognizes, but is unwilling to admit, the
possibility that J is gay.  My brother, F, who is also gay, seems to
get along quite well with S, but S seems to act very cold to me.  The
only reason I can see for this is that I am both gay and her husband's
identical twin.  I think that to her I embody the worst that could
happen with J.

   To sum up, I feel that our genotype lies on the homosexual side of
the spectrum and that our phenotype allows us to function as
heterosexuals and may in fact mean that J is a true bisexual.  J's
involvement in the Mormon church helps him to suppress any homosexual
feelings that he may have.

\		 |  |			John Allen
 \		\ ||			allen@mercutio.lcl.cmu.edu
/ \					jmast@unix.cis.pitt.edu

"Some day I'll dance among the stars and shower burning desire among
the clouds, but today I dance upon the earth and feel its mud between
my toes and the wind blow through my soul."  ---Ry Schwark

-----------------------------------------------------------------

dgil@pa.reuter.COM (Dave Gillett)
08/02/90
I'd be really interested in any information about pheromones in humans, too,
especially since I'm anosmic....

-----------------------------------------------------------------

dab5b@mendel.acc.Virginia.EDU (David A. Baxter)
08/03/90
In article <294@saxony.pa.reuter.COM> dgil@pa.reuter.COM (Dave Gillett) writes:
>I'd be really interested in any information about pheromones in humans, too,
>especially since I'm anosmic....
Well, my understanding (from a radio newsreport) is that the human pheromone
research that has been conducted has indicated that humans are INSENSITIVE
to these chemicals.  Of course, they only checked to see if males are
attracted to female pheromones (and vice versa)...  Talk about an un-
balanced design!  :)

Anyway, if there is really a general interest in the subject, send me
e-mail and I can do a computer search of the relevant literature and
come up with what is currently known.

Dave

-----------------------------------------------------------------

urjlew@uncecs.edu (Rostyk Lewyckyj)
08/05/90
The summary says it all. :-)
