The Story of Upper Westsider
doug@spdcc.com (Doug Mackensie)
07/28/90
This article was written by Ed Cedar on the Backroom BBS
in NYC. It is about a feloow who moderated a section on the
BBS entitled Survivors. Rather than dealing with the clinical
aspects of the scourge, David (Upper Westsider) and his correspondents
dealed with the human side of the epidemic.

David Charnow died this past Monday and a memorial service was
held Thursday night at Columbia Teachers College.

[Ed Cedar writes:]
This ...  message contains an article I was assigned to write
about Survivors for the GMHC newsletter. It never got published
-- they got cold feet about some aspects of it --
 
By the way, David ADORED the article and loved that it upset
them at GMHC:
 
Here it is:
 
   If Upper Westsider didn't have what he calls an
"anti-empirical bias," there's no telling what his Survivors
board might now be  like, or if it would even have come into
existence. When he was first  asked by Artie, the operator of
the New York-based computer bulletin board  called the Backroom,
to start a new section of the Backroom dealing with AIDS, Upper
Westsider already knew that he had tested positive for HIV
antibodies.  By the time he had transcribed his first set of
articles and PWA interviews  and been "on the air" for but a few
weeks, he'd had a bout of LIP and his  diagnosis of AIDS was
confirmed. If he had relied too heavily on what that  meant
about his future "statistically," the project might never have
gotten  off the ground.
 
   But first, a word of explanation.
 
   If you've never communicated over a computer bulletin board,
picture it this way: You worked overtime on Friday and never got
to cash your paycheck, so you dash to the automatic teller
machine in your neighborhood bank to grab some bucks for the
weekend. Before you sign off, though, you decide to take a
chance. You reach for the full keyboard that was recently
installed and type out a message:
 
   "My favorite aunt is in from Detroit and I'm taking her to
see la Cage aux Folles. You see, I'm thinking of telling her I'm
gay, and I want to see how she reacts. Does anyone have any
suggestions?"
 
   You reread the screen to make sure you really want to do
this, then hit the "Save" button that stores it in the big
computer downtown, and you're  gone.  (By the way, it turns out
your aunt had you figured out a long time  ago!)
 
   Next payday you're back at the ATM. When you punch out your
secret I.D.  code, a notice flashes across the screen: "The
following messages are waiting for you..." Some, marked private,
only you will be allowed to read, but others are open to view by
every bank customer. "Good thinking," reacts Sally from Staten
Island. "I left Gay Community News on the coffee table when my
parents came over for dinner. It worked!" Bob from the Bronx
isn't so certain: "I don't see why it's anybody's business what
I do in bed." And someone who only signs himself The Avenger
reasons, "All you perverts ought to be shot." (You also notice
he left Sally a message saying women should keep their mouths
shut and their legs crossed.)
   
   Now, none of this really happens quite so publicly.
Communicating on a bulletin board system -- BBSing for short --
takes place in the privacy of the homes and offices of people
like you, whose personal computers are tied by ordinary phone
lines to a host computer. The host computer stores everyone's
messages and feeds them to the appropriate users when they call.
The network of people you are addressing, though often quite
large, isn't as random as the full set of Citibank customers,
and the fact that you can use a "handle" instead of your name
gives you as much control over your anonymity as you want.
 
   With computers becoming so common these days, there are
probably as many bulletin boards as there are special-interest
groups to make use of them. The White Supremacists have them, as
do psychologists who want to discuss therapeutic theory. There's
even one for the acolytes of enema sex. So of course there are
gay boards, lots of them, all over the country.
 
  Because Upper Westsider lives in the academic world (after
years as a teacher and school principal he is now working on his
doctorate in education at a university here in New York), he
knows his way around the computer services from which
researchers draw their data these days, including several that
are dedicated to AIDS. Between the time he learned of his
positive antibody status and the day of his diagnosis, he had
done a pretty thorough search not only of the databases but of
publishing in general. He found lots of data, but what were
lacking above all were good stories on survivors; he found very
few sources of emotional support.
 
  "People tend to think that a computer is best for long lists,"
he says; for "hard data" like resource lists, journal articles,
and statistics. "The better board, people imagine, is the one
that organizes resources well, and the larger it is, the
better." Though he wasn't sure what shape Survivors would take
when he started it, it was clear he would move it in a different
direction, toward small coversations with "no compiling of
anything, a flow that covers all kinds of topics."
 
  That is Upper Westsider's anti-empirical bias at work. Once
you think you know what categories there are for AIDS, he says,
you've lost the ballgame.  You'll develop those categories, but
you won't look at other ones that may be more productive. "AIDS
has changed my life in a way that means it can never go back to
what it was. If I stay with that, and speak from that
perspective, I lose all organization but the gain is that other
people hear it and understand it, and they can respond in terms
of their own uncertainty, doubt, fear."
 
  In structure, Survivors isn't all that different from "Dear
Abby." Readers, who are not necessarily PWAs themselves, send a
private message only the Westsider can see, describing an AIDS
concern of their own or responding to what they've read on the
board. After editing out any hint to the writer's identity, the
message is posted for everyone to read, along with the
Westsider's personal response.

  It's the word "personal" that spells the difference between
"Dear Abby" and Survivors. The Westsider has no expert advice to
offer; he has only the reactions of an insider. "The outsider
may want to talk about the government's obligation to do testing
and deliver drugs. For me that issue has a different force.
Every time I go to the drugstore now, I leave a check for
$1,200, and it all goes to Burroughs Wellcome."
 
  By responding to the personal with the personal, the Westsider
has encouraged readers along a path of self-disclosure that
reflects his own motivation for starting the board: his
conviction that such open sharing is a counterphobic measure, an
antidote to the reaction some PWAs have that "I'm the only one,
it's all my fault, and I don't dare speak about it or I'll get
sicker." His hope for himself was that "the closer I got to
people who were really sick, the less anxious I would be about
getting sick myself."
  
  Often the Westsider's answers are couched in humor and what
might be called indirection, as when he answered a writer who
first had to apologize "for +he `+' represen+ing a cer+ain
le++er; +ha+ key on my compu+er is broken.
 
  "We all deal with AIDS in our own way," the writer went on. He
was supporting a "wonderful man" who was the care partner of a
dying lover, and while he was deeply in love with this man, he
realized that they would not become lovers afterwards. He spoke
about patience, and the need to provide reassurance, but the
theme seemed to be desertion.
 
  Though the Westsider went on to support his answer with an
anecdote about counsel once given to him by a religious hermit,
his response was really contained in this opening:
   
  "You know how I try to avoid giving advice, but I think this
is important.
 
  "Try to get your keyboard fixed. First try that non-residue
freon spray....  And next try a major repair job. But keep it.
 
  "Everyone knows that a comfortable old piece of clothing is
good for body and soul. Never throw out an old shirt. No. Get it
repaired. The same advice about clothing goes for your keyboard.
And for your relationship(s)."
 
  The Westsider's insistence that he "model" self-disclosure for
his readers by using it in his answers has tested his resolve,
but never more severely than when he received the following
message from a newly diagnosed PWA:
 
  "Two weeks ago I was out on the Island of Fire, having a
wonderful time.  Unfortunately, I had a wonderful unsafe time
with someone....In spite of the fact that I was stoned and
smashed there is no excuse for what I did....I can justify what
occurred by saying that anyone who jumps into bed with me is
responsible to make sure he is protected. But it isn't working.
The first time I've had sex...in eighteen months, and I feel
I've killed them....[signed] Confused."

  The Westsider agonized over that one for days. His reader was
entitled to an answer; he had asked for one. And he deserved to
be treated fairly. But to answer fairly seemed to require that
the Westsider reveal more than perhaps he was ready to.
Nonetheless, he did:
 
  "I don't think you're confused. I think you're guilty.
 
  "Let me tell you a story.
 
  "I got my ELISA from a dermatologist...After I got the news of
testing positive, and had it repeated elsewhere, and Western
Blot, etc., I went through a few days of extreme denial. I had a
fling, no condom, just like your Fire Island fling.
 
  "And I got the clap.
 
  "I returned to that dermatologist because he is good....He
gave me a shot and announced, `That's that.' And he wanted to
see me in his office.
 
  "In his office, he looked me in the eye, and said, `You are a
murderer.'
 
  "Silence. Thick silence.
 
  "He lowered his eyes and said, `Sorry. I didn't mean to say
that.' But he had said it.
 
  "Now I notice that you try to justify your fling on the basis
of responsibility. I tried to justify mine on medical grounds
and in other ways.  Now I notice that your attempts to justify
the action and to pacify your guilt don't work. Mine don't work
either. [signed] Upper Westsider."
 
  What Upper Westsider believes is that, for PWAs, the question
of guilt over those they may have infected unknowingly is a
powerful one, and that they cannot begin to define their ethical
position about it unless they are able to acknowledge any actual
guilt where it exists. Acknowledging that guilt, he feels,
releases creative energy that helps in the process of
transforming one's life, something that can happen only after an
initial paralyzed period, a period so ruled by pain that often
the only possible response is denial.  That was the explanation
of his own behavior, and it was only fair that he share it with
someone else in pain.
 
  Of course, not every exchange on Survivors carries quite that
much freight.  In many ways the board replicates an afternoon at
the Living Room, a drop-in lounge run by New York's PWA
Coalition, where people can compare T-cell counts, toss around
symptoms and side effects, and generally benefit from one
another's experience. "With a disease that is as ambiguous as
AIDS," Westsider feels, "yet is so threatening in its impact,
it's important to establish models and broadcast them for others
to pick up on." That's why he'd be happy to see many more
AIDS-oriented bulletin boards, and many more Living Rooms and
GMHCs. "It puts the power of information in the hands of those
who have or are concerned with the disease, rather than leaving
it as secret information in the hands of researchers."
 
  After 250 messages, Upper Westsider is no more sure than he
was when he started exactly what Survivors should be. What he
has learned for sure is that he should enjoy the messages as
they come in, and that "I should trust my growing awareness that
there aren't too many variations on having an HIV concern. This
tree has only a few branches to it. I am nurturing that branch
that emphasizes survival. It's shorter than any other branch out
there."

(end)

--- TBBS v2.1/NM
 * Origin: The Backroom - NY's First & Finest - (718) 849-1614  (1/0)

-- 
Doug Mackensie
doug@spdcc.COM
System operator, Doug's Den BBS - (617) 245-1270 - 300/1200/2400 baud
GayCom in New England         "More fun per byte"
