New question for biblical scholars
daver@felix.UUCP (Dave Richards)
09/19/86
[The following is an article I posted to talk.religion.misc:]        

>More than once on the net, I have seen someone comment that they were a homo-
>sexual christian or jew.  This has usually been followed by questions as to 
>how they could be both, that they are mutually exclusive, etc, etc.  This was
>brought to mind recently when I read a newspaper article about a new church
>that was being founded by, and for homosexuals (Catholic?).  This may be an 
>old subject to readers of this newsgroup, so I don't intend to start a dis-
>cussion.  But I would appreciate it if someone could provide references as
>to where in the bible homosexuality is discussed.
>
>Please send me mail as I do not read this group.  Thanks.
>
>Dave

An additional question for soc.motss readers:  Since I'm pretty sure that 
homosexual acts ARE specifically condemned in the Bible, how do homosexual
christians reconcile the problem?  Do they have special Bibles that have had
those references removed, or what?  

Again, please respond by email, and do not cross-post to religious groups.

D.R.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

brad@SU-ISL.STANFORD.EDU (Bradley Clymer)
09/19/86
I wrote this letter to daver in reponse to his posting, then I decided that 
it might be good to post it to the net with the idea that it might either
begin stimulating discussion, or provide confort and support to someone
who is gay and christian and trying to deal with the apparent conflicts
in these seemingly different identities:


To: daver@felix.UUCP
Subject: Re: New question for biblical scholars
Newsgroups: net.motss
In-Reply-To: <1576@felix.UUCP>
References: <1575@felix.UUCP>
Organization: Information Systems Lab, Stanford University
Cc: 
Bcc: 

In article <1576@felix.UUCP> you write:
>>More than once on the net, I have seen someone comment that they were a homo-
>>sexual christian or jew.  This has usually been followed by questions as to 
>>how they could be both, that they are mutually exclusive, etc, etc.  
>
>An additional question for soc.motss readers:  Since I'm pretty sure that 
>homosexual acts ARE specifically condemned in the Bible, how do homosexual
>christians reconcile the problem?  Do they have special Bibles that have had
>those references removed, or what?  
>
>Again, please respond by email, and do not cross-post to religious groups.
>
>D.R.

I am interested in discussion of this topic...

I am the coordinator of the young adults group at the local United Methodist
Church here in Palo Alto.  Last fall, part of our program included a series
of lectures and discussions about homophobia in the `church', and its
history. 

One of the speakers had a PhD in English literature with specialization in
the era in which the King James Version of the bible was written.  She
has done extensive research into the references in the bible in which sex
is mentioned either explicitly or implicitly.  Her research included study
of the Jewish culture in the times that are estimated that the stories and
laws were recorded. 

She gave us several interesting insights:

(1)

The laws that specificly condemn `man laying with another man as if
a women' are part of the deuteronomic and priestly codes...the same codes
that establish kosher eating and cleaning rituals, and are thought by many
scholars to be largely social in origin.  

As much as anything, this a display of the hatred between the Jews and the
tribes of the surrounding areas (a hatred that still exists thousands of
years later).  The Babylonians commonly practiced fertility rituals.
This included homosexual as well as heterosectual orgies, and festivals.
When the Jews were captive by the Babylonians, there was considerable 
concern among the Jewish priests and prophets that the race would be 
corrupted by the teachings and culture of the `heathens' that were occupying
them.  The laws were part of an effort to separate the two cultures, and
preserve the identity of the Jewish people.  Today, many Christians disregard
the kosher eating laws as being primarily social, however the adhere to the
sexual laws (to varying degrees) because they tend to reinforce the culture
of the majority.

(2)

All specific stories in which motss sex is condemned (for example the story
of the destruction of Sodom, the story of Noah and his son, etc.) involve
RAPE.  In these cases, the sex involved noncomplicitity of the part of at least one of the  participants.   In most cases, the action included threats of 
physical violence (as with Sodom) as well as intent to socially debase the
person being attacked by forcing into a position lower than a woman's (and
women were regarded as being socially invisible objects of possession).
Many scholars see  these stories as condemnation of rape rather than
homosexuality.  The specific examples tend to involve men raping men because
that was socially considered the most degrading and violent form of rape.
As I recall in the story of Sodom, Lot offered his virgin daughters that
the angels be spared.  This is as much a statement of the prevaling opinion
of women as it is the `nobleness' of Lot in his effort to save his guests.

(3)

There is absolutely no mention of women having sex with other women.  Either
that was considered allowable behavior or (more likely) women had such low
standing socially that the powers of the church ignored their sexual 
practices unless they involved infidelity to a man.

(4)

There is a story of King David and a friend, Jonathon, in which a homosexual
relationship is strongly inplied, although not specifically cited.  This 
relationship is not treated in a negative manner.  Granted, not everything
that David did was entirely honorable and should be copied, but he is 
definitely considered one of the most famous heroes of the old testiment.

(5)

In Christian interpretations of the messages of Jesus in the new testiment,
many sects emphasize that the principal commandment is to `love your
neighbor as yourself," and that this christian love transcends all laws of
the old testiment.  He gave examples of working on the Sabbath when the
done out of love.  Many gay christians see this as an acceptance of themselves
and their lifestyles; how can an act of love be a sin?   Granted, many 
gay relationships are not loving, but many heterosexual ones are not either.

Well, this letter has already become much longer than I intended.  I welcome
discussion on this or other subjects.  I am glad that you posted to net.motss.
This is a topic that is not often discussed, and should be.

brad clymer     brad@su-isl.arpa or brad@isl.stanford.edu (I'm not
		sure of the uucp path)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

manis@ubc-cs.UUCP
09/21/86
In article <1576@felix.UUCP> daver@felix.UUCP (Dave Richards) writes:
>An additional question for soc.motss readers:  Since I'm pretty sure that 
>homosexual acts ARE specifically condemned in the Bible, how do homosexual
>christians reconcile the problem?  Do they have special Bibles that have had
>those references removed, or what?  

Since Dave mentioned a new church for gays, and since things like Dignity,
Integrity, and MCC have been around for a long time, it's safe to assume
that he's merely incredibly ignorant. Perhaps there should be an
automatically-posted message which, every month or so, summarises the
following points.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
(People who argue theological points with which one disagrees are often
accused of having axes to grind. Here are mine: I am a gay Jew, who
disagrees strongly with the fundamentalist interpretation method. I will
attempt to represent that position fairly, but please don't expect
perfection. It will also become apparent that I have a high regard for Paul,
though I differ strongly from him on the matter of Jesus.)

There are two basic ways in which the Bible can be interpreted:
fundamentalists argue that sacred writings are *the truth*, while others
argue that these writings represent the understanding of people at a
particular moment in time. (The fact that most Christians and Jews do not
make any particular effort to avoid wearing clothes with two kinds of fabric
(Leviticus 19:19) suggests that most people do not consider the Bible to be 
absolutely binding.) I will call the second group "liberals", though it
includes theological interpretations which are so widespread as to be
totally incompatible.

For a "liberal" (many Reformed Jews, Methodists, Quakers, etc.), the Bible
represents a view of human-Divine relationships which is incomplete, as it
does not include the last two thousand years. Thus such a person will
attempt to live in conformity with what s/he considers to be Divine Law,
which includes the importance of loving relationships. Such a person will
then consider any sexual act in the context of the particular relationship,
asking how it furthers or hinders that relationship. The question is then
not "who does what with what to whom?" but "how does this act enhance or
detract from the relationship?". 

Put another way, the "liberal" generally looks not at a particular act or
Biblical text, but at the overall context in which the act or text is
embedded.

Seen in this light, homosexual acts are precisely as moral or immoral as
heterosexual acts. The motives, emotions, and intentions of the participants
are more important than the acts themselves.

A fundamentalist would obviously not agree with this position. (However, not
all fundamentalists take the missionary position all the time :-) It is,
however, quite improper for a fundamentalist to criticise a "liberal" as
irreligious: it is merely the case that the religious bases of the two
individuals are very different.

A gay/lesbian fundamentalist, on the other hand, must account for those
passages of the Bible which would appear to condemn homosexual acts. Since
none of these passages directly condemns gay people, anti-gay
fundamentalists must then distort the meaning of these passages in various
ways. What follows is a brief listing of some of the most famous passages,
along with explanations. A number of books have been written on this
subject, including "Homosexuality and the Western Christian Tradition", by
D.S. Bailley (which was published in the 1950's and is marred by a poor
understanding of sexuality and an overzealous attempt to protect the
reputation of the religious establishment), "David Loved Jonathan" (I can't
remember the author, but it was published in the early 1970's as an
apologetic), and Troy Perry's book, whose title escapes me (Perry is the
founder of the Metropolitan Community Church). 

(excerpts are from the Jerusalem Bible.)

Leviticus 18:22 "You must not lie with a man as with a woman. This is a
hateful thing."

Superficially, this passage would be binding on everyone. However,
Christians are explicitly not bound by the Holiness Code (this is Paul's
interpretation in Romans). Modern day society tends to ignore the holiness
code, as the proliferation of cheeseburgers, blended fabrics, and unrounded
beards suggests. In any case, Lev. 18:19 says a man cannot have sex with his
wife during her period, a thing which I've never heard Jerry Falwell condemn.

Another interpretation, popular today, emphasises, "as with a women". In
other words, the stricture can be said to demand that sexual relations be
for mutual benefit of both (all?) partners: "as with a woman" suggests that
the offender is using the other man for sexual release. Put another way,
what is prohibited is not homosexuality but objectification.

--------------
Aside: lest you think I'm going far afield, let me say that I do not share
the fundamentalist interpretation. However, a fundamentalist is required to
believe that each text has one truth, and that only careful thought will
allow the student to determine what that one truth is. There's nothing
different in procedure between what I did in the previous paragraph and what
Hal Lindsey does in his grotesque books which purport to prove that Andropov
or Chernenko or Gorbachev are the anti-Christ, based on texts wrenched out
of Daniel and Revelation.
--------------

Romans 1:24-28 (excerpts) "...they have given up the divine truth for a lie,
... that is why God has abandoned them to degrading passions ... their
menfolk have given up natural intercourse to be consumed with passion for 
each other ... getting an appropriate reward for their perversion."

The parts I deleted contains the only explicit reference in the Bible to
lesbianism (excluding the love story of Naomi and Ruth). However, the
essential parts are here: people who do not believe in God abandon
themselves to sensual gratification, eventually finding that they have lost
control over themselves. It's of course a truism: anyone who lives only for 
satiation eventually finds it a hollow and meaningless existence. 

However, it has nothing whatsoever to do with homosexuality: Paul only uses
homosexual acts as an example of damnable (sic!) behaviour, and after 1:28,
homosexuality makes no further appearance in Romans.

Modern fundamentalists can interpret this passage in a number of ways: it
should be noted that (in my edition) Romans 1:18-32 is headed "God's anger
against the pagans", and purports to demonstrate that hiding God's truth
leads to wickedness (1:18), and in particular the wickedness of comparing
the good with the inferior and choosing the inferior (1:23, 1:27, 1:32). It
would be quite within the scope of a fundamentalist interpretation to say
"For me, heterosexuality would be an imitation, an inferior choice.
Therefore, I am bound to choose homosexuality." It would also be reasonable
to say: "Paul speaks divine truth here, but his choice of homosexuality was
poorly chosen, and represents a view in which there were no homosexuals,
only heterosexuals who engage in homosexual acts to be perverse.  I should
ignore his poor example, lest it cause me to reject his divine message."

1 Corinthians 6:9-10 "You know perfectly well that people who do wrong will
not enter the kingdom of God: people of immoral lives, idolators,
adulterers, catamites, sodomites, thieves, usurers, drunkards, slanderers,
and swindlers will never inherit the kingdom of God."

This one pretty conclusively proves that being gay is a sin: a homosexual is
as bad as the guy who sets the interest rates on your VISA card (usury).
Unfortunately, there is an entire industry devoted to determining what Paul
meant by "catamites" and "sodomites" ("malakoi" and "arsenokoitai",
respectively). Neither word is found in either Classical or Koine Greek, and
the literal meanings ("soft ones" and "ass-fuckers") aren't precise enough
to specify homosexual acts specifically. It is widely considered possible
that Paul was referring to male prostitutes who took the "passive" or
"active" role (respectively). Other readings have included "masturbators"
for "malakoi" and "heterosexual male prostitutes who engaged in 'deviant'
sex" for "arsenokoitai". Since it's unlikely that we'll ever know what Paul
meant precisely, this text too loses some of its force.

John Boswell, in "Christianity, Social Tolerance, and Homosexuality",
includes an extensive discussion of the subject.

1 Timothy 1:10 "those who are immoral with men"

I deliberately wrenched this one out of context. It would appear to condemn
homosexuals. However, consider the entire passage:

1:8-11 "We know, of course, that the Law is good, but only provided it is
treated like any law, in the undertanding that laws are not framed for
people who are good. On the contrary, they are for criminals and
revolutionaries, for the irreligious and the wicked, for the sacrilegious
and the irreverent; they are for people who kill their fathers or mothers
and for murderers, for those who are immoral with women or with boys or with
men, for liars and for perjurers--and for everything else that is contrary
to the sound teaching that goes with the Good News of the glory of the
blessed God, the gospel that was entrusted to me."

Paul is saying the exact opposite of what Jerry Falwell or Jimmy Swaggart
would claim he is saying here: there is morality and immorality. If you are
naturally moral, you don't need an elaborate set of rules. Otherwise, you
need laws which regulate your behaviour, including your sexual behaviour.
While Paul might disagree with modern notions of morality, his texts doesn't
suggest that homosexual acts are particularly immoral (in fact, one could
even twist this text to suggest that homosexual acts are no more immoral
than heterosexual ones, which I doubt was Paul's intention).

To sum up, there are some texts which may be troubling to a fundamentalist
gay or lesbian. Since no one of these texts explicitly condemns homosexual
behaviour, a gay/lesbian fundamentalist (or a gay/lesbian supportive
fundamentalist) must attempt to determine what the correct interpretation of
these passages might be. There certainly are non-condemning interpretations
which can be arrived at using fundamentalist methods, and therefore the
Bible cannot be fairly used, even by a fundamentalist, to condemn all gays
or lesbians.

I might note that I define fundamentalism of the Falwell/Swaggart/Robertson
variety as the belief that every word in the Bible is the divine word of
God, with the exception of Leviticus 19:18, Deuteronomy 5:20, Luke 10:29-37,
and Romans 13:8-10, not to mention the entire Book of Ruth.
 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

wex@milano.UUCP
09/22/86
In article <247@SU-ISL.STANFORD.EDU>, brad@SU-ISL.STANFORD.EDU (Bradley Clymer) writes:
> There is absolutely no mention of women having sex with other women.  Either
> that was considered allowable behavior or (more likely) women had such low
> standing socially that the powers of the church ignored their sexual 
> practices unless they involved infidelity to a man.

I can think of another reason for this:  many rulers (including Hebrew
kings) had multiple wives.  It is quite likely that lesbian activity took
place among the wives.  Since this didn't threaten the king (the way
infidelity did), he didn't worry about it.  But it would have been
politically dangerous for the priests to forbid the activity (as a horde of
pissed-off wives might have influenced the king to move against the
priests).  Sound plausible?


-- 
Alan Wexelblat
ARPA: WEX@MCC.ARPA or WEX@MCC.COM
UUCP: {seismo, harvard, gatech, pyramid, &c.}!ut-sally!im4u!milano!wex

"True victory is victory over oneself."

-----------------------------------------------------------------

lonestar@ozdaltx.UUCP (lonestar @ OZ BBS, Dallas,Tx)
09/27/86
     In Article 3 (Newsgroup soc.motss) last week, Dave 
inquired:  "how can you be both a Christian and gay?  Where 
in the Bible are homosexual acts condemned?  How do gay 
people reconcile that problem?  Does the new church founded 
by/for gays have special Bibles with those references 
removed?"
 
     There is absolutely nothing that precludes a Christian 
from being a homosexual, or vice versa.  A Christian is a 
believer in the risen Christ: nothing more, nothing less.  
Some churches like to impose their own qualifications on 
what constitues a "real" Christian; but these are latter-
day additions to or corruptions of Christianity.  
 
     The Metropolitan Community Church is not a "gay 
church", but a Christian church with an outreach to the gay 
community.  It came into existence because many gay 
Christians were excluded from membership or participation 
in their traditional congregations.  It's not surprising 
that a large percentage of MCC members come from 
fundamentalist backgrounds; but the MCC serves Catholics 
and Protestants alike.
 
     No, gay Christians do not have special Bibles with 
references to homosexuality removed.  It might be tempting 
to say, "Why don't we compile a new Bible and just cut-out 
those bits that we don't like?"  Well, where do you quit 
cutting?  Are you going to delete  the Resurrection because 
you find it inconvenient?  See the problem?  We can't 
remove bits from the Bible like that because our integrity 
would be lost. We have to take the Bible as a whole and 
read it in context, not in bits-and-pieces.
 
     The first, and most quoted, reference to homosexuality 
in the Bible is  Leviticus 18:22.  "Thou shalt not lie with 
mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination".... .usually 
delivered by homophobes of a somewhat theatric bent in 
ringing tones!  Other Biblical references to homosexuality 
are clearly cases where the writer borrowed from the author 
of Leviticus. 
 
     Asking how gay Christians reconcile the problem with 
this condemnation is rather like asking how straight people 
deal with the Biblical condemnation of adultery.  Which 
straight people?  Which gay people?  Not all gay people 
think alike--anymore than do  straight folks.  Some worry 
about it, some don't; some reconcile it this way, some that 
way; some never reconcile it at all.  
 
     Most Biblical Literalists perceive an irreconcilable 
problem in this single verse of scripture.  Their view of 
the Bible is that "God wrote it, every word is true, and it 
contains no errors."  But no thinking person can accept 
that notion.  The Bible is full-up with errors, mainly of 
four types.  The first is Biblical self-contradictions.  
One example:  Noah's flood lasts for 40 days in Genesis 
7:17 and for 150 days in Genesis 7:24.  Not bad...only 
eight verses apart, and they can't decide how long it 
lasted.  The second is errors in natural science.  The 
universe was believed to be wrapped in waters that are held 
back by a solid bell-shaped barrier called the firmament of 
heaven.  Clearly, this is wrong.  Third:  errors in 
history.  There are so many of those that it's hard to know 
where to start, but perhaps the best example is the fifth 
chapter of Daniel, which is just rife with them from start 
to finish.  Finally, there are moral errors.  Probably the 
worst example was the system of "heran".  This was the 
total destruction of an enemy people, considered as enemies 
of oneself and therefore enemies of God.  Their total 
destruction (men, women, children, and cattle) was 
understood to be both the will of God and righteous.  
Another example is God's blessing of slavery (Leviticus).  
In 1986, we must say that these are moral errors.  
 
     How do you deal with that?  If you insist upon 
Biblical Literalism and inerrancy, don't  you attribute 
those errors to God himself?  Compelled as we are by our 
integrity to reject the Bible as literal history, and 
therefore also to reject it as inerrant, we're left with 
one alternative: interpretation.
 
     Interpretists believe that it is the task of every 
generation to interpret the story of the faith in and for 
its own time.  No word or portion of the holy scripture is 
binding upon us just as it is written-down, without 
interpretation.  It is not sufficient to just quote the 
mere words of the text.  What is the context of the words?  
The text must be examined with meticulous care, using all 
the tools of scholarship available to us in all 
denominations.  It must be checked for accuracy.  It must 
be related to other passages, one passage set against 
another, to see how these things balance-out; not taken in 
isolation.  It must be examined for its historical setting. 

What were the time and circumstances in which it was said; 
not taken on its own, as though it had no place.  And then 
it must be checked against the overall message of the 
Gospel as we know it.  How does what it says measure-up 
against the doctrine of Love?  If it doesn't, it's probably 
wrong.  Then, when you're finished with all that, you can 
relate it to the present time.         
 
     What is the context of Leviticus 18:22? The book of 
Leviticus was written as a guide to the priests of the day: 
containing instructions for rituals, sacrificial offerings, 
and maintaining cleanliness.  There were over 600 laws that 
the Hebrews had to obey, 365 couched in the negative!  
Homosexuality was just one of them.  Some other sins and 
abominations in Leviticus included eating rabbit, pork, or 
crabmeat; touching a woman during her menstrual period; 
eating rare meat; and the selling of land. (How eagerly 
some people  use the Bible to beat homosexuals over the 
head, but dispense with the other laws.  Selective 
enforcement of the law!)
 
     The laws condemning homosexual relationships 
originated in Jewish history upon the return from 
Babylonian exile.  It's significant that both mouth-genital 
contacts and homosexual activities had previously been 
associated with the Jewish religious service.  But now, in 
about the 7th century BC, there was an attempt to 
disidentify themselves with customs which they had 
previously shared with the Babylonians.  Homosexuality and 
many other condemnations were based upon the fact that the 
pagan Babylonians do thus-and-such; and therefore we won't. 

(Ref: The Hite Report on Male Sexuality, p. 797).
 
     Through misinterpretation of intent, many Christians 
have misconstrued the Biblical condemnation of homosexual 
acts as a matter of morality.  Perhaps the most important
thing about the Bible and homosexuality is that Jesus, who 
had so much to say about so many sins, said not one word 
about it!  For many gay Christians today, there simply 
isn't a problem to be reconciled.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

tim@ism780c.UUCP (Tim Smith)
10/03/86
>      The first, and most quoted, reference to homosexuality
> in the Bible is  Leviticus 18:22.  "Thou shalt not lie with
> mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination".... .usually

[ enter un-serious mode ]

	1. It sounds like this is against gays who have a lot of
	partners ( note it says "mankind" ).  So perhaps only one
	or two are ok?

	2. Also, it seems to only call it an abomination when you
	*lie* with mankind.  Perhaps if you *stand* during sex
	then it is ok?

	Taking 1 and 2 together, it seems that what the Bible is
	against is gay orgies where everyone lies down.

[ un-enter un-serious mode ]
-- 
member, all HASA divisions              POELOD  ECBOMB
					--------------
					       ^-- Secret Satanic Message

Tim Smith       USENET: sdcrdcf!ism780c!tim   Compuserve: 72257,3706
		Delphi or GEnie: mnementh

-----------------------------------------------------------------

daver@felix.UUCP (Dave Richards)
10/07/86
In article <414@ubc-cs.UUCP> manis@ubc-cs.UUCP (Vincent Manis) writes:
>In article <1576@felix.UUCP> I write: 
>>An additional question for soc.motss readers:  Since I'm pretty sure that 
>>homosexual acts ARE specifically condemned in the Bible, how do homosexual
>>christians reconcile the problem?  Do they have special Bibles that have had
>>those references removed, or what?  

>Since Dave mentioned a new church for gays, and since things like Dignity,
>Integrity, and MCC have been around for a long time, it's safe to assume
>that he's merely incredibly ignorant. Perhaps there should be an
>automatically-posted message which, every month or so, summarises the
>following points.
[remainder of article deleted]

My question was based on ignorance, as are most sincere questions.  I hesitate
when using the word "ignorance" because I feel it has taken on a somewhat
negative connotation, and I sense that it was used by Vincent with that inten-
tion.

   I mentioned a new church.  I did not say it was THE FIRST gay church, or
even the first gay church of which I was aware.  I simply said that I had read
about a new gay church, and that it had sparked the discussion that prompted
my question. 
   
   Isn't the phrase "incredibly ignorant"  sort of like "incredibly unique"?
Vince, it's too bad you had to ruin an otherwise superlative article (pun
intended) with the condescending crap in front.  The article is the most com-
plete and useful response that I've seen.  I only wish you had answered by
e-mail as I requested, as it was pure chance that I saw it in this group.

I've been reading news on this net for about a year, and have not seen this
subject discussed before.  If it is frequently discussed in this newsgroup, then
I am sorry for taking up your valuable time and net space with my query.  But
again, if everyone had replied by e-mail, that is ALL the space that would have
been taken up.

Dave

-----------------------------------------------------------------

manis@ubc-cs.UUCP
10/07/86
In article <1635@felix.UUCP> daver@felix.UUCP (Dave Richards) writes:
>My question was based on ignorance, as are most sincere questions. 
>I hesitate
>when using the word "ignorance" because I feel it has taken on a somewhat
>negative connotation, and I sense that it was used by Vincent with that
>intention.
>
>Vince, it's too bad you had to ruin an otherwise superlative article (pun
>intended) with the condescending crap in front.  The article is the most com-
>plete and useful response that I've seen.  I only wish you had answered by
>e-mail as I requested, as it was pure chance that I saw it in this group.
>
>I've been reading news on this net for about a year, and have not seen this
>subject discussed before.  If it is frequently discussed in this newsgroup,
>then
>I am sorry for taking up your valuable time and net space with my query.  But
>again, if everyone had replied by e-mail, that is ALL the space that would 
>have been taken up.

Dave, let me say that I'm sincerely sorry that my remark offended you (since
the original remark was posted, so too should the apology). I would stop
there, except that you (and other people who just "happened" across this 
newsgroup) may not know the context within which I made that remark.

About once every three months, somebody posts something like the following:

   "Please forgive my ignorance, but how do gay people reconcile their
    beliefs with the fact that gays are garbage?"

This then sparks off a heated debate in which the original poster defends 
his (I can't remember a "her" in this position) right to post and right to
hold offensive positions. I used the phrase "incredibly ignorant" to suggest
that perhaps you really didn't know about MCC, Dignity, etc., etc., and that
perhaps you weren't planning to start off one of these debates.

Again, I am sorry that you took offense; I would encourage you to remain
in this newsgroup, and to participate.

As a postscript, the notion of a group of gays getting together to prepare
an expurgated/amended version of the Bible strikes me as extremely funny;
by the time that the committee on lesbian participation, the committee on
solidarity with people of colour, and the committee on the correct political
position on pornography had all submitted their reports, the organisation
sponsoring the rewrite would undoubtedly have fractured into three competing
organisations.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

david@gladys.UUCP (David Dalton)
10/11/86
In article <426@ubc-cs.UUCP>, manis@ubc-cs.UUCP writes:
> 
> As a postscript, the notion of a group of gays getting together to prepare
> an expurgated/amended version of the Bible ...

An expurgated version of the Bible probably isn't necessary. A better
course would be to apply good scholarship to statements in the Bible
that are generally held to apply to gay people. It is possible to make
an excellent case for the argument that the Bible isn't nearly as harsh
on gay people as is generally believed.

John Boswell, a professor of history at Yale University, published an
excellent book in 1980 which I am ashamed to say I read only recently.
The book is _Christianity, Social Tolerance, and Homosexuality,_
University of Chicago Press.

I should be very cautious in attempting to condense Boswell's major
points; Boswell is cautious even with 400 pages in which to make his
case. However:

                            ---------

-- A harsh Christian attitude toward gay people is a fairly new
   invention. It arose about the time the Inquisition got started --
   the 13th Century. Before the 13th Century, gay people generally
   were quite well accepted. In many periods and places there were
   no laws against homosexuality at all. When there were laws,
   homosexuality was generally held to be no worse than gluttony,
   or heterosexual dallying -- sins of excess and indiscretion, in
   other words. Punishment, when there was any, was light, and in
   many cases the punishment for homosexual acts was less than that
   for heterosexual fornication.

   The problems began in the 13th Century, when theologians
   advanced the idea, for the first time, that homosexuality was a
   much greater crime, as bad as, or worse than, murder. Gay people
   were not the only minority to suffer. Boswell writes, "The Jews
   were in fact one of the first casualities of the intolerance of
   the later Middle Ages. For centuries they had lived among 
   European Christians quietly and with little difficulty....
   During the later half of the twelfth century, however, an
   increasingly conformist European society found the persistent
   distinctiveness of the Jews more and more irritating."

   Things got worse. "During the decades surrounding the opening
   of the fourteenth century, the Jews were expelled from England
   and France; the order of the Templars dissolved on charges of
   sorcery and deviant sexuality; Edward II of England, the last
   openly gay medieval monarch, deposed and murdered; lending at
   interest equated with heresy and those who supported it 
   subjected to the Inquisition; and lepers all over France 
   imprisoned and prosecuted on charges of poisoning wells and being in 
   league with Jews and witches."

   It has persisted for centuries: "Moreover, whatever its effect
   on public lives, the change in public attitudes had a profound
   and lasting impact on European institutions and culture as a
   result of the permanent and official expression it achieved in
   thirteenth-century laws, literature, and theology, all of which
   continued to influence Western thought and social patterns long
   after the disappearance of the particular circumstances which
   produced them."

-- Translations of, and popular contemporary understandings of,
   biblical references to homosexuality are by no means firmly
   supported by good scholarship. Boswell is a historian and a
   linguist. He is quite familiar with, and frequently quotes at
   great length from, primary sources. Boswell writes, "In spite
   of misleading English translations which may imply the
   contrary, the word 'homosexual' does not occur in the Bible:
   no extant text or manuscript, Hebrew, Greek, Syriac, or Aramaic,
   contains such a word. In fact none of those languages ever
   contained a word corresponding to the English 'homosexual'...

   "None of the many Old Testament passages which refer to Sodom's
   wickedness suggests any homosexual offenses, and the rise of
   homosexual associations can be traced to social trends and 
   literature of a much later period."

   The story of the destruction of Sodom is an excellent example
   of contemporary and historical misinterpretation of Biblical
   stories. Boswell writes, "Since 1955 modern scholarship has
   increasingly favored interpretation (4) [that the city was
   destroyed for inhospitable treatment of visitors sent from the
   Lord], emphasizing that the sexual overtones to the story are
   minor, if present, and that the original moral impact of the
   passage had to do with hospitality. Briefly put, the thesis of
   this trend in scholarship is that Lot was violating the custom
   of Sodom (where he was himself not a citizen but only a
   'sojourner') by entertaining unknown guests within the city walls
   at night without obtaining the permission of the elders of the 
   city. When the men of Sodom gathered around to demand that the
   strangers be brought out to them, 'that they might know them,'
   they meant no more than to 'know' who they were, and the city
   was consequently destroyed not for sexual immorality but for the
   sin of inhospitality to strangers.

   "Numerous considerations lend this argument credibility. As
   Bailey pointed out, the Hebrew word 'to know' ([Hebrew characters
   omitted!]) is very rarely used in a sexual sense in the Bible
   (despite popular opinion to the contrary): in only 10 of 943
   occurences in the Old Testament does it have the sense of carnal
   knowledge. The passage on Sodom is the only place in the Old
   Testament where it is generally [that is, popularly] held to
   refer to homosexual relations.

   "Jesus himself apparently believed that Sodom was destroyed for
   the sin of inhospitality: 'Whosoever shall not receive you, nor
   hear your words, when ye depart out of that house or city, shake 
   off the dust of your feet. Verily I say unto you, it shall be no
   more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of
   judgment, than for that city.'

   "There are, moreover, numerous other references in the Old
   Testament to Sodom and its fate, and scholars have failed to
   accord this facet of the controversy the importance it deserves.
   Sodom is used as a symbol of evil in dozens of places, but not
   in a single instance is the sin of the Sodomites specified as
   homosexuality."

-- The words of Saint Paul, too, have similarly been misunderstood
   and mistranslated by translators all too willing to let the
   popular prejudices of their time affect their work. Boswell
   goes into these questions in detail, and there is even an
   appendix, "Lexicography and Saint Paul," which discusses this
   problem.

-- Boswell argues that religious belief -- Christian or other -- 
   is not the CAUSE of intolerance of gay people. He writes: "If
   religious strictures are used to justify oppression by people
   who regularly disregard precepts of equal gravity from the same
   moral code, or if prohibitions which restrain a disliked minority
   are upheld in their most literal sense as absolutely inviolable
   while comparable precepts affecting the majority are relaxed or
   reinterpreted, one must suspect something other than religious
   belief as the motivating cause of the oppression.

   "In the particular case at issue, the belief that the hostility
   of the Christian Scriptures to homosexuality caused Western society
   to turn against it should not require any elaborate refutation. The
   very same books which are thought to condemn homosexual acts condemn
   hypocrisy in the most strident terms, and on greater authority: and
   yet Western society did not create any social taboos against 
   hypocrisy, did not claim that hypocrites were 'unnatural,' did not
   segregate them into an oppressed minority, did not enact laws
   punishing their sins with castration or death. No Christian state,
   in fact, has passed laws against hypocrisy per se, despite its
   continual and explicit condemnation by Jesus and the church. In the
   very same list which has been claimed to exclude from the kingdom of
   heaven those guilty of homosexual practices, the greedy are also
   excluded. And yet no medieval states burned the greedy at the stake.
   Obviously some factors beyond biblical precedent were at work in
   late medieval states which licensed prostitutes but burned gay
   people."

-- Oppression of gay people is closely linked to oppression of other
   minorities. Boswell writes, "Most societies, for example, which
   freely tolerate religious diversity also accept sexual variation,
   and the fate of Jews and gay people has been almost identical
   throughout European history, from early Christian hostility to
   extermination in concentration camps."

   In many ways, life for gay people can be worse than for Jews in
   times when both are being oppressed. "... Jewish family life
   flourished as the main social outlet for a group cut off from the
   majority at many points in its history, imparting to individual
   Jews a sense not only of community in the present but of belonging
   to the long and hallowed traditions of those who went before.

   "Gay people for the most part are not born into gay families. They
   suffer oppression individually and alone, without benefit of advice
   or frequently even emotional support from relatives and friends....

   "...[G]ay people have been all but totally dependent on popular
   attitudes toward them for freedom, a sense of identity, and in many
   cases survival. The history of public reactions to homosexuality is
   thus in some measure a history of social tolerance generally."

                           -----------

It is quite chilling that Boswell declares that intolerance of gay
people has never been worse than it is this century. Anti-gay
propagandists seem to be succeeding in making gay people a major symbol
of immorality in this country today. These propagandists generally cite
religion as their authority. 

John Boswell's book, if widely read, could go a long way toward showing
that religious bigots are connecting not with the gentle roots of
Christianity but with the worst horrors of the late Middle Ages and the
Inquisition.

-- 
David Dalton 	ihnp4!gladys!david  -or-  ethos!gladys!david
____________	P.O. Box 256, Bethania, NC 27010 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

