What to do about Offensive Person in Random Newsgroup
fair@ucbarpa.Berkeley.EDU (Erik E. Fair)
01/03/88
Once upon a time, there was a computer network created by a set of
like-minded UNIX Wizards, to exchange technical information about
UNIX, and thus make their lives easier. Once the network grew to be
about 100 sites, its existence was assured, since it was big enough
that no one site failure could kill it.

Of course, the network continued to grow. Finally, one day, someone
expressed an opinion, and lo! there was disagreement, for the
network had grown so large as to encompass a representative sample
of the population of the U.S. (and a few other places) and thus
there were many people with many differing beliefs and opinions on
the network, all just itching to convert the others to their
particular point of view.

Rather than attempting to censor those they disagreed with (which
is impossible given the technology on which the network is built),
the Net Gods (as those who do not understand call those who work
hard in the shadows to keep the network running smoothly) decided
to apply the experience one gains when one walks Sproul Plaza at
the University of California at Berkeley during the noon hour.
There are many people there who wish to convert you to their point
of view: evangelists, moonies, atheists, ROTC's, communists, gays,
straights, blacks, whites, yellows, etc.

The most enduring thing that one learns from walking though Sproul
Plaza is that the worst thing you can do to a preacher (of whatever
point of view) is to ignore him. To ignore someone is to deny their
existence, and in denying their existence, you do them more grievous
harm than rising to their bait (with whatever caustic words you
can think of) would ever do.

What I suggest (since I can't take any positive action myself) is
that you convince the readers of [Random Newsgroup] to agree not
to rise to the bait offered by people whom you find offensive. If
you all ignore [Offensive Person] utterly, I predict that s/he will
rant on for a little longer, and then leave you in peace.

Unfortunately, there are many people in the world who have not
walked Sproul Plaza during the noon hour, and have not therefore
learned this important lesson. Thus the preachers of the world will
always have fodder for their pulpits, no matter how rediculous they
sound.

Of course, we of the net have one advantage over others:

	when it all gets you down, remember:
		it's only ones and zeros.

	Erik E. Fair	ucbvax!fair	fair@ucbarpa.berkeley.edu

P.S.	Also, never forget that "rn" gives you the power to ignore
	[Offensive Person] without thinking beyond the agreement to do so.
	Imagine: automated network ostracism!

-----------------------------------------------------------------

