It Ain't pretty
levasseur@euclid.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin 223-5027)
01/17/86
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

cycy@isl1.ri.cmu.edu (Christopher Young)
01/21/86
While I can understand Ray's cynical viewpoint, and indeed I've noticed the
same behaviour among many gay men myself, I feel that the attitude Ray
presents in his posting is a bit radical and indeed self-destructive.

First, I do think that, as a whole, lesbians are way more together than
gay men. For one thing, lesbians in general are a lot more concerned about
social/political issues whereas gay men seem to be only interested in
themselves. I think one reason is because women themselves have been oppressed
so long whereas men have had it easy for a long time. Lesbians are being
discriminated on two fronts, and they can't hide the fact that they are women.

As far as straight people and acceptance goes, I think it is impossible to
make any generalisation about that at all. I seen everywhere from complete
acceptance to death threats.

Stereotypes can be dangerous, however. Especially negative, bitter ones. There
are many gay people who just don't engage in "gay" social activities. I and
my lover rarely do. In fact, I rarely ever did when I was single. I didn't/don't
need them; I had/have my friends, I make new ones through my friends and by
chance, and that's enough with me. If somebody gives me a "dead flounder"
handshake, is catty and nasty, etc., I note that I probably would not like to
associate with that person and leave it at that. I don't need them and they
don't need me. I don't care. It's not my loss. I don't get bitter.

Having been a member of Dignity, I would like to debate Ray's view of the
organisation. I think perhaps it depends upon where you go to Dignity meetings.
I went to a wonderful church in Sacramento, Calif. It was quite integrated.
There were white, black, hispanic, asian, etc, straight and gay, man and women,
young and old, etc. We worked on issues such as Santcuary and social justice.
Dignity also met there once a month. It was not cruisy. And there were wome
Religious issues were discussed after mass, and I found it quite pleasant.
There was spiritual life there. And it worked *with* the church. We even
had a fund for the school attatched to the church for which we would hold
rummage sales and such. It was great, and it's one of the things I miss most
about Sacramento.

Life is what one makes of it. I have a number of gay and straight friends in
about equal percentages. I ignore those I don't care to be with and enjoy
the company of those I find I get along with.  Personally, I think Kenwatch
is kind of stupid, but understandable. If it were more positive (ie., warned
newcomers rather than launching vicious counter-attacks), I think I would
like it better. But I don't think a person should go sour on an entire,
giagantic population of people. It's not very fair. I have friends who I
consider to be physically attractive and not so attractive, but they are all
very handsome inside. I think there are lots of people, gay and straight, who
feel that the inner qualities are the most important. But going around with
such a bitter attitude is bound to turn people off. Thus, potential friends
are alienated before they are ever met.

I don't want to lessen the point about pettiness, because that and gossip do
seem to be overly abundant in "gay" culture. But I encourage people to make
their own culture and their own friends, and to be open to all people.

Sorry this is so long.

                                                                -- Chris.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

