Regarding a Coupla Subjects
levasseur@euclid.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin 223-5027)
01/13/86
    Rather than post a few separate messages I'll comment on three popular
current subjects; Arndtism, Truth in Advertising and gay dating.

On Arndtism:

    Jerry! I have sent Ken personal mail and he was always polite in his replies
with no hidden claymore or bouncing Betty mines (you young whippersnappers prob-
ably don't remember Nam and I'de rather forget my vacation days in the beautiful
Tonkin Gulf). I've shown his postings to gay friends also and responses were
mixed; real sicko to kinda funny in a Monty Python sort of way. Maybe I'm not as
thin skinned as some other readers but I can ignore a lot of the veiled homo-
phobia in his postings. Yes I can see the hidden pungi sticks which lurk beneath
the surface of his articles but I step around them. I can see that a new gay
reader to net.motss would probably be put off just as he may if he started going
to a gay bar where homophobic townies taunt patrons outside the door to the bar.
Some of his postings are mad rantings, some are delusions and the rest are quite
sincere. Of course Jerry you could take a proactive stance since you work in New
hampshire as he does and borrow a genuine replica of the Uzi submachinegun from
one of the engineers in Littleton, load up on ammo at the nearest water fountain
don your black pajamas, take a sniper position outside his office, take careful
aim at his keyboard and squeeze off a few shots, shorting out his keyboard. :-)

On Truth in Advertising:

    So what's the big deal! I've been an avid sci-fi addict for 25 years and 
have often found gay under/overtones in sci-fi. Anyone else remember the gay
monthly sci-fi mag that came out ~7-8 years ago and quickly went the way of
the 5 cent cigar?

On Gay dating:

    I'm a staunch supporter of traditional dating etiquette. Trouble is that 
most men I meet don't share my zeal and want to unwrap the package the moment
they lay eyes on it. I have found when I made a date (vs) tricking out on the
spot, that the other party usually doesn't follow through, looks elsewhere!
I've had 4 lover relationships; the first one was wonderful, the other three
disasters. What set the first apart was that we dated for the first few weeks
and got to know each other before consummating the act itself. The decision
to sleep together came at a pot luck supper where we discussed expectations
and fears. The fears were that making love may destroy the budding friendship
but it didn't. There were other instances where after as period of courting;
neither one of us could bring ourselves to sleep together but remained close
in a Platonic way.
    The bilk of gay relationshiops I've seen start as a hot trick then devel-
ope into something more. In the last three I had I hardly knew them until we
were living together...then I was stuck with a damaged bill of goods, they
were onn their best behavior until I was theirs. I believe now that if the
person is truly worthwhile, they'll be willing to date and get to know one
another before jumping in the sack.

                                                Ray

-----------------------------------------------------------------

