Faculty homophobia at UMass
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
11/01/85
[culled from NPR's "All Things Considered", 10/31/85.  Trick or treat.]

Regularly denying leftist faculty tenure is oldhat at many schools,
but a new twist in academic intolerance is on the rise.  Two
social scientists at the University of Massachusetts/Amherst,
"whose prestige [in their fields] alone should have been enough
to get them tenure" according to other faculty members, have
been denied it, apparently because they both teach about "alter-
native sexual lifestyles."

One of the two, Allan (?Alec?) MacDonald, of the Center for the
Family in the Home Economics department, was told by another
Center faculty member that the Center is "an advocacy center
for the traditional nuclear family" !  Since when have univer-
sities, especially public ones, become advocacy rather than
study centers?!?  Talk about proselytizing!

MacDonald said that many people, including his colleagues and
even his wife, told him he was crazy to study subjects like
homophobia, homo/bisexuality, to be an advisor to a gay students
group: it was professionally suicidal.  Nevertheless, over the
past few years he's changed his major research interest to the
study of sexuality.  At a previous post at the University of
West Virginia, a colleague suggested it was physically dangerous:
he might be killed.

The other instructor denied tenure, Roger Libby, is suing UMass
for $165,000 (MacDonald has waived the right to suit in exchange
for one more semester at UMass; he'll continue his research on
his own).  His original areas of specialization were also marriage
& the family.  Colleagues believe he was turned down for both his
subject (alternate sexual lifestyles) and his colorful teaching
style.

UMass isn't the only campus on which academic conservatism [sic.]
is taking this particularly ugly form.  Not only are certain opinions
(eg, Marxist ones) verboten, but some subjects as well.

Have academic careers become such a rat race that the drivel that
passes for Reagan-era opinion in this country is considered not
only teachable & arguable in an academic setting, but the insti-
tutional norm as well?

					Disgusted,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

