opening christian awareness
brad@SU-ISL.ARPA
08/27/85
I am a new user on the net, so please bear with me.

I am a student at Stanford, and the Young Adults Coordinator at a local
United Methodist Church.  I have been reading this newsgroup this week
for the first time, and I am hoping to enlist help and guidance from
subscribers.  I am not gay, but through close friends have become very
interested in gay lifestyles and culture.  One particular aspect that
bothers me is the adversary relationship between institutional churches
and the gay community.  Alas, even the United Methodist Church at its
last General Conference chose to take a much more conservative stand on
gay ministers instead of the more Christian philosophy of inclusion.

I will try not to be too philosophical here, or drag out religious discussion, 
but I am concerned that most non-gay Christians see homosexuality as a
problem that needs to be corrected.  Even the churches (except MCC and a few
local congregations) that recognize gay members seem to do it under the 
constraints that homosexuality is (of course) a sin and that these poor sinners need to be converted (hogwash).

I am currently working with the pastor at my local church to have the 
young adults group which I lead sponsor a series of film/discussion sessions 
aimed at opening the awareness of the local Christian community.  I am
looking for resources that I can use for such a series.

I attended the San Jose premier of a film recently made by the MCC about its
history and current activities.  At that meeting I met Rev. Troy Perry, founder
of MCC, and other members of the San Jose congregation.  I got several 
suggestions at the reception for Rev. Perry:

	One member is a psychologist and sexologist, and offered to speak on the 	issues of sexuality, etc. and lead a discussion, answer questions, etc.

	Another woman there was a member of a 'reconciling' United Methodist 
	congregation in the San Jose area who has done extensive scriptural
	research in dispelling myths about the Bible's stand on homosexuality.
	She comes with enthusiastic recommendations of many members of the 
	San Jose MCC, and her affiliation with a Methodist congregration could
	be very enlightning to my own congregation.

	The minister of the local San Jose congregation offered to loan a copy 
	of the MCC film, and to speak/lead discussion.

	There is a speaker's bureau associated with the Stanford student's group	GLAS, and someone in that organization suggested a student speak on the
	coming out/religion considerations, etc.

Please send or post any further ideas that might be applicable.  If you think
that this whole idea is silly, tell me that too.  My personal goal is to 
increase the awareness of my local church to the point that they decide to
become a reconciling congregation.  It would be nice to change the entire 
United Methodist Church's stand, but that is a much bigger matter, and should
probably be discussed in net.christian or something.

send usmail to: brad clymer
		511 Central Ave. #R
		Mountain Vw, CA 94043

e-mail to: brad@su-isl (I think... I'm not sure about how to use the mail system		for anything not local to Stanford.)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

asente@Cascade.ARPA
08/28/85
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

richw@ada-uts.UUCP
08/30/85
GOOD JOB !  While you're at it, could you help out atheists, too?   :->

-- Rich Wagner

-----------------------------------------------------------------

