AIDS TV Special......../.....More Jason Diversions, Bring Money!
levasseur@morgan.DEC (Ray  EMD & S Admin  223-5027)
09/16/85
    Last night WBZ TV Channel 4 in Boston aired a two hour special on AIDS.
I felt that they handled the subject quite well and helped dispell a lot
of wives tales regarding transmission of the virus. They also had a call in
period to answer questions from viewers. They also had a link to San Francsico
and spoke with Bobby, one of the people who were in the PBS Nova special "AIDS
The First Chapter". He looked much worse then in the Nova program. The news
team kept stressing the following points:

* AIDS is not passed through casual contact.
* It is not a *GAY* disease.
* It seems to be passed through blood, even in sexual contact.
* School children need not fear getting it from a fellow student who may have
  it.
* Risk of getting AIDS through blood transfusions has been greatly reduced due
  to blood testing and donor screening.
* It is everyone's problem and shouldn't be blamed on any one group.
* Because you may have been exposed to the virus does not mean you will get
  AIDS.

    All in all they did a good job in educating the tv public; whether or not
viewers beleived what was being said. The show aired from 9-11 pm which was
in the prime time Sunday night movie slot. Reported cases and mortality rates
were flashed on the screen, with a projection that there could be upwards of
a million carriers. Anybody else in the Boston area have any opinions of the
special?




                And now for Something Completely Different
                ******************************************

                   More Gay Diversions in the Bay State


    Since ol Jason moved to da BIG city he's been snooping around more for
things for good/bad gay boys and girls to do. Some may remember my posting
last year about the who's who and what's what among bars. Not only must tour-
ists drink and socailize but they must eat and buy souveniers. Boston does
boast some other things to do besides drink. A coupla things have changed in
gay nightlife in Beantown, so here's Jason's E.C.O. to gay diversions.

Bars
----
Buddies - Sorry to say Buddies, that bastion of prettiness and Izod LaCostedom
          has gone the way of the buffalo and 5 cent cigar. A fire in another
          part of the building last Spring rendered the popular dance bar un-
          dancable (unless you wear a deep diving suit). Guesss where all the
          water went when Boston firemen squelched the blaze? I'll give you
          a hint, Buddies was a basement bar. It was just announced in the
          bar rags that management will not re-open the place. 

LuLu's  - Closed shortly after it opened due to licensing problems. It was
          remaned Fantasy's In Town just before it closed. Oh well bars come
          and bars go, this one came and went faster than most.

Campus/Manray - I haven't been here but hear that this Cambridge dance, night-
         spot can be interesting. Mixture of gays and trendy straights share
         this spot. Young croud!

Haymarket - On my last report I hadn't been there but my roomate and I checked
         it out one Sunday for Tea Dance. The place is nice and the music's hot
         but the clientel are mostly hustlers. It gives off the type of vibes
         that say "Ya better watch yer P's and Q's Chucko". In Boston's world
         infamous Combat Zone.

119 Merrimack - AKA The Rifleman. I didn't have much to say about this joint
        since I had never really been there. Since moving to the city it has
        become my favorite watering hole due to the friendliness/silliness of
        the patrons. A lot of the clubs hold their leather club days here.
        A dark dingy place, but loads of fun for the more macho. There's a 
        small dance floor but most of the guys are too bust drinking. A VERY
        serious drinking man's bar. Behind the new city hall and the mental
        health center. Kinda makes me wonder why 119 happens to be near a 
        mental health center.

R.C.C. - Randolph Country Club is about 25minutes to 2 hours from Boston, dep-
       ending on how busy the Southeast Expressway is (aka) the world's largest
       parking lot. Most bar papers in Boston give directions to this oasis am-
       ong the industrial parks. Thye have an olympic sized pool for Summer
       fun as well as a couple of bars and dinner is served during the week,
       offering very reasonable prices. Mostly young guys and lotsa women in
       the evening.


Eats!
-----
Ideal Diner - Not really a diner at all but a rather nice gay run reataurant
       offering Continental dining in a pleasant atmosphere. Ideal is in the
       same block as Chaps, Boston's premier Chi Chi gay Cha Cha palace. You
       will have to put your shirt back on after leaving Chaps to eat at the
       Ideal Diner.

Icarus - Very pricey gay restaurant in the South End on Tremont Street, a coupla
       blocks from the Boston Eagle. Nice place but bring money.

Cafe Calypso - About a block from Icarus, a gay brunchatorium and restaurant
       with a varying menu. The food is good but again, a little pricey. Nicely
       done storefront place.

On the Park - Now! I really liked this intimate little gay eatery. Not very well
       known as of yet. It's on the corner of Union Park and Shawmut Ave. A very
       small storefront place with varying daily menu. You can also bring a bot-
       tle of wine. The prices, food and service are all excellent.

La Trattoria - on Cambridge Street side of Beacon Hill. A nice Storefront Ital-
      ian place with a large gay following. The food is excellent but again a
      bit pricey.

Fritz - Besides being a neighborhood cruise bar, Fritz offers lunch and Satur-
      day/Sunday brunch. Typical brunch menu, nice airy atmosphere due to Fritz
      having windows all around. The brunch crowd is friendlier than the evening
      crew.

Eagle - I seem to gravitate to the Eagle for their Sunday Brunch. It's not a 
      fancy place by any means but brunch is excellent. You can get a really
      nice 8-10 oz steak, 3 eggs, etc for $6.

St. Botolph - A wonderful place in a restored Victorian house on St Botolph 
      Street. A very gay following and very popular for brunch; reservations
      are required. Pitchers of bloody Mary's are served with brunch. The place
      is really nice inside. Brunch for two will run you $25-30. Worth a visit!

Club Cafe - Upstairs from the Tres Gay Metropolitan Health Club. Downstairs is
      filled with Nautilus, sauna, hot bodies, etc, upstairs is a low key eleg-
      ant restaurant and bar. This place is quite pricey but well worth a spec-
      ial evening. The restaurant has a greenhouse facade; bright and airy.

Toys n Things
-------------
In Touch - On the corner of Newbury and Exeter. One of Boston's best stores for
      gay cards, Tee shirts and miscellaneous small gifts.

Jules - A couple of doors down from In Touch. A very nice gift shop; quite gay
      with a lot of art deco and various other unique curios.

Copley Flair - On Boylston Street between Dartmouth and Clarendon. Another ex-
      cellent gay gift and card shop. You can buy Gay Monopoly, Gay Trivia as
      well as many nice little pieces of bric a brac, cards, novelties, etc.

Body Body - Between Datmouth and Exeter on Newbury street. A very gay clothing
     store; play clothes to suits can be purchased here.

Innovations - If leather's your thing, Innovations is your place. Custom made
     as well as off the shelf leather jackets, vests, harnesses, etc. Also a
     selection of toys, lubes, mags. Not for the timid. It's on Tremont street
     near the Eagle, ask at one of the bars how to get there.

Box Office Video - Gay owned and staffed. In my opinion, Boston's best video
     store (of course I'm biased since two friends of mine own it) Was just
     voted Best of Boston in Boston magazine. One of the largest selections
     of camp, classic, gay XXX, as well as regular films. Also a good selection
     of video equipment.

Glad Days - Boston's Gay book store on Winter street, above the criossant place.
     A vast selection of gay men and women's books, records, Tee shirts, buttons
     etc; friendly, helpful staff.

    Well this covers a lot of other little places I've frequented. I'm sure 
there are more but ol Jason is a creature of habit. If you're coming to Boston
Enjoy! Play safe!

                                      Ray (aka) Jason

-----------------------------------------------------------------

