Open Gay Role Models
dgreen@ucla-cs.UUCP
08/23/85
Laura Freeman raised some questions about when it's appropriate to come out
publically.  While this will hardly answer the questions, I thought you might
find it related.  Since coming out in the press, and everywhere else (sometimes
you feel like you're on a high speed rollercoaster), I've observed several
patterns.

1.  Don't come out all over the place until you've got some support.  Parents
    and the public can be awfully ugly.  It certainly helps if you have close
    friends to help you get through rough times.  I owe my sanity to my ex, and
    to a few close friends.

2.  Don't be surprised, when you come out publically, that closeted gays avoid
    you.  They're closeted.  Being seen with you can be a big threat to their
    closet.  But it's no loss.  Closeted people are known for stabbing other
    gays in the back.  You don't really want them around if you're a public
    figure.

3.  Do come out.  Early and often.  People (even straight gay-haters) have to
    respect you for your honesty.  Believe it or not, I attribute my fairly
    positive press (crossing my fingers) to being honest and forthright with
    reporters.  They love it.

4.  Be proud of who you are.  Tell people you are gay all the time.  If you
    don't, they assume you are straight.  It's so much easier if you correct
    their misconceptions immediately.  That way, when they find out later that
    you're gay, they won't feel lied to.

5.  Make the best press you can out of being gay.  It seems wierd, but
    the public is titillated by gay officials.  Personally, gay politics
    doesn't figure into my UC student president job, but I use it for all it's
    worth in the press.  
       I literally had to TELL the UCLA Daily Bruin to mention my sexuality.
    I told them I was gay a million times, but until the Berkeley scooped them
    with a story titled "SBPC Elects Gay-Rights President," they said not a
    peep.  Push it.  Sometimes you have to.

6.  If you don't come out to your fellow workers, your family, and your 
    friends, you are abandoning your brothers and sisters.  We must all pave
    the way for younger gays and lesbians.  Unless we come out, they will have
    to tough it out like we did:  with too many uninformed and prejudiced jerks
    running around.
       Besides, you know how good it is for your mental health.  No more
    sneaking around.  No more contrived apologies for not taking a date to the
    company party.  No more fake image.  Just you and the truth.  It's really
    quite a relief.
       If you fear losing your security clearance, get another job.  Honestly,
    it's a short life.  Why waste it unhappily afraid?  Life is so much more
    fun when you're unhampered by puritan baggage.


Now, here's the news:

                                PRESS RELEASE

    GAY PRESIDENT TO REPRESENT 141,000 UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA STUDENTS

    At an August 3rd Sacramento meeting, student officials from 9 University of
California campuses elected a gay activist as their statewide student
president.  Dan Greening, a UCLA doctoral student in computer science, now
coordinates the University of California Student Lobby, the 12th most powerful
lobby in California.  He represents 141,000 University of California students
in Regents meetings, and in the California legislature.  Greening also heads a
statewide committee of 18 student representatives.

    In his new position, Greening will focus on student concerns like reducing
student fees and improving affirmative action programs.  "Despite active
recruitment of minority undergraduate students, affirmative action currently 
suffers three major problems," Greening said, "insufficient undergraduate
retention, declining graduate enrollment, and a gross failure to tenure
minority faculty."  Greening feels new innovative programs can improve minority
representation.

    Greening also works with several other organizations.  In June, Greening
was elected co-chair of the United States Student Association lesbian/gay
caucus.  He is helping the Municipal Elections Committee of Los Angeles, a gay
and lesbian PAC, to set up a computer database for direct mail campaigns.
"MECLA gives a lot of clout to the Los Angeles gay and lesbian vote," he
claimed.

    As the University of California's first openly gay student president,
Greening feels he provides a visible role model.  "I want to show the
average citizen that we make good leaders," he said, "I feel that's every gay
person's responsibility."


Dan Greening      213-206-8512
UC Student Lobby  916-442-3827

-----------------------------------------------------------------

