good Art Hoppe today...
futor@lll-crg.UUCP (Randal Futor)
09/10/85
I hope this goes well; it's my "first(!!!)"...

For those of you not fortunate enough to live within his zone of
syndication, Arthur Hoppe is the political satirist in the San
Francisco Chronicle. He is usually on target & quite funny, but
sometimes (esp. lately) his sense of humor flags with his reaction
to the world around him. Unannounced & unpermitted, I forward for 
your examination his column for today (10Sep). I DO hope that only
ONE copy of this shows up at any given site & that it's legible;
this editor & I have had to throw away 3 of these already!!

"The New Lepers"

It was at a party. I had filled my glass at the bar and turned. Behind
me was a middle-aged man I had known for several years. I don't know
him well. We had talked several times. He is a gentle, soft-spoken
soul and I like him.

A month or so ago, I heard he had AIDS. I thought of calling or writing
him, but what do you say? And now here he was. He held out his hand. For
a fraction of a second, I involuntarily hesitated. Then, of course, I 
shook it.

If he does have AIDS, I can only pray that he didn't notice that flicker
of hesitation. I am deeply ashamed of it. I can think of nothing more
dishonorable than to fail to offer your hand to a dying man.

Only the day before, a dear friend who is a reasonable sort demanded to
know why "the newspapers didn't print the truth about AIDS" - primarily
about what a danger AIDS poses to the middle-class heterosexual community.

"I was at dinner the other night and we spent at least an hour talking
about nothing else," he said, and there was a hint of fear and anger
in his voice.

I tried to tell him that for the last couple of years newspapers have
gone out of their way to publish stories about AIDS and their message was
precisely the opposite: every recorded case of AIDS has been the result
of the virus being transmitted into the bloodstream either by contaminated
blood or contaminated semen. There is no other known way to contract the
disease.

I don't think he heard me. I don't think people are listening. I think
they are too unreasonably scared.

"The food's good," said a woman I know, talking about a restaurant she no
longer frequents because many of the waiters are gay, "but why take chances?"

"My heart goes out to him," a mother was quoted as saying in a news story
about a young pupil who had AIDS, "but I wouldn't feel right letting my
child be in his classroom."

In San Francisco, city officials denounced as "a cruel hoax" notices
falsely claiming that AIDS patients would be quarantined in remote loca-
tions. Yet at least some gays took it seriously.

And rightly so. From most reports, gays are being increasingly evicted,
fired and ostracized as the disease spreads increasingly among them and
the heterosexual community becomes increasingly frightened.

It's no wonder gays refuse to give their names when taking tests for AIDS.
If I were gay, I wouldn't want my name on any list. There's not much harm
now, but if no cure is found and if the disease and the fear continue their
exponential growth...

I keep thinking about leprosy. We used to ring bells and shout, "Unclean!"
when we saw a leper coming, or lock them up in deplorable colonies for the
rest of their lives. We knew that their very touch would make us lepers too.

Today, we have learned that leprosy is transmitted only through prolonged,
intimate exposure. We now call it "Hansen's disease" and treat its victims
as out-patients. They walk among us posing no more danger than a stranger
with AIDS.

I like to believe that the human race is getting better over the millenia.
Aftr all, that hope is our only chance of survival in a nuclear age. So 
I can only pray that we react more reasonably to an unreasonable fear this
time around.

Thus I'm afraid - not of AIDS, but of our reaction to it. Your reaction and
mine. And if a dying friend of mine reads this, I hope he will forgive me.
I'd like to shake his hand.
   end-of-citation -- I hope this doesn't get me a subpoena...
   sorry it got so long...
   later -- Randy (futor@lll-crg.arpa)

   "...the little faggot is a millionaire..." -Dire Straits
   if the quote (in place) isn't great enough for you, surely the group
   name in the citation is all the irony ANYone should require in a day!!


   :qw
   :wq

-----------------------------------------------------------------

futor@lll-crg.UUCP (Randal Futor)
09/10/85
I hope this goes well; it's my "first(!!)"...

I wanted to share today's column by Arthur Hoppe with you. For
those of not fortunate enough to get him regularly, he's the
political satirist in the San Francisco Chronicle. He is usually
quite funny & on target, altho this particualr

-----------------------------------------------------------------

