Lesbian & Gay Film Festival in Cambridge, MA
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
06/04/85
THE 1985 LESBIAN & GAY FILM FESTIVAL


Gay Community News and the Orson Welles Cinema are cosponsoring a 
Lesbian & Gay Film Festival, starting Wednesday, June 5, at the Orson 
Welles Cinema in Cambridge, MA.  It may supersede or replace the annual
Gay Film Festival at the Nickelodeon Theater in Boston, I'm not sure:
the latter festival was postponed from May to June when Boston University
President Long John Silber made a stink about the Festival's coinciding
with graduation ceremonies, not over worries about students, who heavily
patronize the Nick & have their share of openly gay undergrads, but over
PARENTS of students.  Such Victorian hypocrisy!

Currently thru Tuesday 6/4/85 the Welles screens BEFORE STONEWALL, an
interesting documentary about gay life before the 1970s, plus a campy
Cuban-American short, PHOTO ALBUM.

The festival proper runs programs of two (count 'em!) full-length films,
each program lasting ONLY TWO DAYS!  But the films chosen mark a big
improvement over the offerings of previous area gay film festivals.

Two gay Israeli films air on Wednesday & Thursday, June 5 & 6: Amos
Guttman's DRIFTING, which has been called "one of the best gay films
ever made", plus EACH OTHER, about gay women.

Other offerings include the ever-outrageous TAXI ZUM KLO, paired with
BURGER QUEENS OF BERLIN (Rosa von Praunheim strikes again!), a documen-
tary about expatriate American drag queens living in Germany (I kid you
not!); Mai Zetterling's SCRUBBERS, the best women-in-prison movie ever
made, and the wonderful MAEDCHEN IN UNIFORM (Germany, 1931), an early
"talkie"; underground Bay Area filmmaker Curt McDowell's magnum opus
sex film, LOADS;  Andy Warhol's seemingly indestructible TRASH; the racy
& offbeat ABUSE, with John Lydon of the Sex Pistols enmeshed in an intense
S&M relationship with cop Harvey Keitel; the British ANOTHER COUNTRY, a
well-acted preppie melodrama about the Guy Burgess/Kim Philby spy case
(eat humus, Dame Rebecca!), & PRIVATES ON PARADE, which, despite the
title, offers no frontal nudity; as well as other well-known and obscure 
full-length films.

It's too bad that Greece's first gay film, ANGEL, which screened here
a few months ago, wasn't included (it's hard to get a print), or the
documentary about Cuban gays & Castroite persecution, IMPROPER CONDUCT
(it makes excessive demands for candor on the politically correct youth
of GCN, the poor things are so beleagured by nasty facts in these hard
times!).  But, useless bitching aside, the choice of films is a very
good one, the first festival here to show coherence & just plain life
in the selections made.

The festival has been quickly thrown together, so there's been little
advance publicity.  Tomorrow I'll post a detailed schedule.

					Regards,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

