The History of Sex: review of research
rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
06/26/85
[Gobble, gobble!]

The current (7/8/85) issue of The New Republic contains a review
essay by historian Lawrence Stone of more than 2 dozen of the
most important books & articles on "The History Of Sex" and
sexuality (pp 25-37).  In its brief 15 or so years, this new
field of historical research has made some of the most startling
finds in recent scholarship.

Worth reading for its bibliography alone (which I'll post later
when I have more time), Stone's chronological survey of findings
is very readable & useful for obtaining the broad outlines of the
subject.

But Stone's summarizing is unreliable about details.  Taken aback
by a statement attributed to Kenneth Dover (author of GREEK HOMO-
SEXUALITY), I flipped through my copy of Dover's book and found
Stone's description a collection of greater & lesser distortions
plus one blatantly false remark:

	Using Dover's book, Stone cites Aristophanes' LYSISTRATA (in 
	which the housewives of Athens go on sexual strike against 
	their men) as evidence that by that time Athens was "basically
	heterosexual" in contrast to the previous period (ie, no 
	major sexual alternatives to their wives existed for the men).
	But Dover in fact (p 148-149) takes pains to make an opposite
	point: Aristophanes exercised dramatic license to make his
	plot work by ignoring not only homosexual outlets, but pros-
	titution & masturbation, which we know were culturally 
	approved & available then.  Dover uses Aristophanes to
	emphasize how misleading even "realistic" literature can be
	as a source of sociological inference.  Yet Stone commits
	precisely this fallacy & in effect uses Dover as his authority!

So readers unacquainted with the works under review should take Stone's
summaries with a grain of salt.  It's still well worth reading for it
describes major changes in our conventional historical views of law,
religion, customs & popular attitudes concerning sex & sexuality.


					Regards,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

