TV Movie: Consenting Adult
gaf@cmu-cs-h.ARPA (Gary Feldman)
01/30/85
I had the good fortune to see a sneak preview of "Consenting Adult"
tonight.  The movie is scheduled to be shown on Monday, 4 Feb, on ABC.
Marlo Thomas and Martin Sheen star as the parents struggling to come to
terms with the homosexuality of their son, played by Barry Tubb.  The
movie is based upon the book of the same name by Laura Hobson, which in
turn was based upon her personal experiences.

Like the book, the movie is really directed more towards parents (and
friends and relatives) of gays, rather than towards gays themselves.  For
the most part, the reactions of the parents are realistic, though
sometimes overacted.  A few times, however, the dialogue has been
contrived to conform to stereotypes, particularly with respect to the
guilt felt by the mother.  Overall, the sensitivity and emotions are the
important parts of the movie.  (A couple of the bar owners at the
screening even cried--and you thought they only cried when profits
decline.)

There are, of course, some flaws.  We don't see much of how the son makes
the transition from fighting himself to accepting and wanting to be gay;
we just see the results.  The movie has been recast into the eighties,
from the original sixties of the book, and there are some anachronisms.
In particular, the word "gay" isn't used until late in the movie.  We only
see the psychiatrist once, whereas in the book, the first psychiatrist, by
his obstinacy, played an important part in making the mother look
elsewhere to find understanding.  And finally, the mother never becomes
quite as supported as she does in the book (although there is a clear time
constraint).

On a more political note, the movie shares the same squeaky clean, lily
white image for which "Making Love" was criticized.  The son's boyfriend
is yet another gorgeous blond pre-med.  There is some affection shown
between them, but I really think that prime time is ready to at least show
two men hugging.  On the other hand, I'm not sure that a movie like this 
doesn't have to be clean, white, and middle class, in order for it to make
progressive changes in the attitude of the audience.  (I admit it; movies
like this are PR, and PR is usually a con game.)

Aside from the acting and script, the movie is technically weak.  The
score was bland at best, and the lighting at times caused bizarre
highlights in the eyes and hair of the actors.  On the positive side, the
casting directory clearly has good taste in men.  (Sorry, I couldn't
resist getting that in.  And yes, it would still be a fine movie if the
people all looked like average people, instead of models.  I hope we all 
know by now that Hollywood has totally unrealistic ideas about what people 
should and do look like.  Or perhaps Hollywood has no confidence in its
ability to drama without sexploitation; if so, they're usually right, but
not in this case.)

In summary (and taking into account my low expectations of TV), I consider
this a fine movie, and urge people, especially straight people, to watch
it.  Furthermore, while it may not seem directly important to gays, please
consider the effects it will have on others.

	Gary

-----------------------------------------------------------------

