Why can't we just leave things the way they are?
rlr@pyuxd.UUCP (Rich Rosen)
10/19/84
> My religion IS, in fact, practiced in the workplace.  I believe
> that God will prosper me according to my righteousness.  Your definition
> of righteousness is disgusting to me.  WHY CAN'T WE JUST LEAVE THINGS THE
> WAY THEY ARE?  Why will you have me thrown in jail, or legally forced out
> of business because I refuse to accept your warped morality? [BRUNSON]

The title of this article represents the oft-heard rationale of those who
resist social change:  why not leave things as they are?  The corollary to
this occurs in times when social progress is growing, and the changes that
this progress causes requires some adjustment on the part of other people
who formerly didn't have bother thinking about the people their behavior
was affecting.  That corollary is:  why don't we go back to the old ways
when things were better, when everyone knew their place, etc.?

1.  What Brunson calls a warped morality is, in fact, a morality prescribing
	the right of all human beings to live as they please, provided that
	their actions do not interfere with or violate another person's rights.
	Brunson may argue that HIS right to interfere in other people's lives
	is being violated (his right to discriminate).  Yet that is clearly
	not one of the "rights" this very simple, minimal and rational morality
	includes.  Is there anyone who finds fault with such a morality?  Why?

2.  If a society is based on the exploitation/oppression/dehumanization/
	ignoring of an element(s) of that society, on some arbitrary basis
	("They're not human, they're slaves."  "They don't believe in the
	REAL god."  "They do *weird* things." "... thus they can't vote,
	can't expect equal treatment, etc."), then the sudden/gradual
	realization of the equalness/humanity of that element, that group
	of people, is going to cause changes in the society.  ("You mean
	we won't have slaves to work in our fields anymore?" "You mean *they*
	are going to working in *our* company?"  "You mean I have to work/live
	with/near one of *them*?", etc.)  If a tenet of the societal morality
	is truly to treat all people equally, even those who formerly were
	not, then the changes are to be expected.  A fact of life.

3.  I'd still like to see the difference between Jews/blacks/women("legitimate"
	minorities) and homosexuals (non-"legitimate" minorities).  I'd also
	like to know what Brunson's notion of a protected minority is.  If
	all people are to be treated equally and not discriminated against,
	why are certain groups considered "protected"?

4.  The battle cry "let's get things back to the way they were", an appeal
	to those affected negatively by these changes, is most often a call
	to fascism and repression.  Getting back to the old days will of
	necessity mean getting back to (actively) repressing the newly 
	emancipated groups of people.  Such people are not satisfied until
	they can repress just about everyone other than themselves.  Then there
	are those like that clergyman who said "First they came for the gays,
	but I was not gay, so I didn't speak up; then they came for the Jews,
	but I was not a Jew, so I didn't speak up; then they came for the
	communists, but I was not a communist, so I didn't speak up; ... then
	they came for me, and there was no one left to speak for me."  (BAD
	PARAPHRASE---could someone please send me the original text and the
	name of the speaker)
-- 
Now I've lost my train of thought. I'll have to catch the bus of thought.
			Rich Rosen    pyuxd!rlr

-----------------------------------------------------------------

