Serpent in Paradise
arndt@lymph.DEC
08/16/84
                        PRECIS

       The hammer blow that will drive homosexuals and the
       'gay lifestyle/rights movement' underground again is
       the current health crisis (of which AIDS is only the
       tip of the iceberg) among homosexuals, especially in
       New York and San Francisco but spreading, who follow
       a particularly promiscuous path to fulfillment and
       the impending breakout of that health crisis into the
       population at large.  Given the same kinds of events
       (health crisis) among heterosexuals the same case can
       be (and would be) made against promiscuous hetersexual
       lifestyles.  In fact, some sexually related health
       problems ARE of epidemic proportions among the heteros.
       The point to be taken is however that these diseases
       are not seen as coming into the general population from
       an identifible minority.  They are caused by a behavior
       by and large and not passed like the flu.  On the other
       hand, homosexual vectored diseases ARE being passed 
       without the vehicle of homosexual behavior.

       The purpose of this article is NOT to castigate homosexuality
       per se, although you all know my views, but to speak out
       against promiscuous sexual behavior (hetero and homo) because
       of the consequenses to us all.  Homosexuals no less than others,
       need to speak out against 'bath house' sex and a lifestyle
       the essence of which is random, repeated, anonymous sex.

       As a corollary, I also seek to answer the question often
       expressed on this net (Motss) as to what harm do homosexuals
       do and what business is it of anyone what two consenting
       adults do.

       If the general public IS infected with these diseases from
       the homosexual community the hammer blow will fall.  Remember
       how quickly the government moved just a short time ago against
       Swine Flu from such a small amount of information?

First, what is a sexually promiscuous person?  Kinsey guessed that the
average homosexual has 1000 sexual partners in a lifetime.  The Village
Voice put the figure at 1600.  Others (from the homosexual community)
have stated that 10,000 for a "very active" homosexual would not be
extraordinary.

As a result, certain members of the homosexual community (the bath house
and gay bar scene) in America's large cities are infecting and re-infecting
each other with a variety of diseases.  This realization is dawning upon
the gay community.  It was the homosexuals of San Francisco themselves
who took the lead in outlawing sex in the bath houses of that city earlier
this year.  To quote a gay writer in the Washington Post, "You can take
away AIDS and you're still looking at a community that happens to be a
diseased community. I'm sorry. The bulk of your venereal diseases now
reside within the gay community.  The bulk of enteric (intestinal)
diseases is now within the gay community."

What Newsweek termed, "a carefree sexual adventure, a headlong gambol on
the far side of the human libido." is turning into a nightmare for a
growing number of young men and women.  A 28 year old AIDS victim from
New York City told Newsweek, "The belief that was handed me was that
sex was liberating and more sex was more liberating." AIDS is a breakdown
of the natural immune mechanism of the body which can no longer fight 
off infections we normally have no problem with.  Today it is conservatively
estimated that there are 4600 victims of AIDS in this country, of which
40% have already died.  But the real horror comes with the following
information!!  It is estimated that there are 20,000 to 40,000 persons
with pre-AIDS (early signs) and no one knows how many are incubating
the disease.  AIDS is a new disease WITH AN INCUBATION PERIOD OF UP TO
FOUR YEARS!!!!  

Lest you think this is alarmist, hear Dr. Donald Abrams of San Francisco
General Hospital quoted in Newsweek, "(the hospital) estimates that 25%
of gay men in San Francisco now have lymphadenoathy (pre-AIDS)."  IF this
represents the early stage of AIDS (and there is evidence that it does and
that it is infective), then, short of some dramatic behavioral change,
the gay community is on self-destruct.                               
  
What of the recent work of Dr. Robert Gallo and his research team at the
National Institutes of Health?  They recently identified a virus, HTLV-3,
as a possible cause.  (It may not be the only cause!)  Some research
physicians believe that their announcement was grossly premature spurred
by, "a private competition - for fame, prizes, new research funds."
 (New York Times)

But horror piles on horror, for if the virus HTLV-3 IS the cause of AIDS
it has been found in 75% of patients with pre-AIDS and 35% of SYMPTOMLESS
homosexuals!!!!  Talk of a cure is groundless at this point in time and
a vaccine is years away.

Unfortunately the litany must go on.  There are today incubating within
the homosexual community, pandemic, rare, and exotic diseases formerly
considered 'tropic' and waiting like a time bomb to explode into the
general population.  They are termed "Gay Bowel Syndrome":

            -Amebiasis, a disease of the colon caused by parasites.  Causes
                        dysentery and sometimes liver abscesses. Usually
                        picked up from contaminated food.

            -Giardiasis, a parasitic bowel disease causing diarrhea.
                         Spread in a similar way.

            -Shigellosis, a bacterial bowel disease which can cause
                          severe dysentery.  In children, can be fatal.
                          Contaminated food is the usual cause.

            -Hepatitis A, a viral liver disease (less serious than B or
                          non-A, non-B) spread by fecal contamination:
                          e.g., food, water, and close person to person
                          contact.

GBS is a major health problem for us all because; of the rapidly expanding
pool of infection in the homosexual community; the ease of spread to the
wider public; the tendency for persons to be infected with one or more of
these organisms at the same time; the difficultly of clinical diagnosis
(they all have common symptoms); nearly all groups of GBS diseases have
SYMPTOMLESS CARRIER STATES.

In 1977, a fourfold to tenfold increase in GBS-type diseases was noted in
San Francisco.  It has gotten worse since!  In NY as well.

The New England Journal of Medicine reported in 1980 that in San Francisco
an average of 10% of people reported as having amebiasis, giardiasis, or
shigellosis were employed as food handlers.  Between 60% - 70% of these
persons were homosexuals.  How long before the cry goes up for homosexuals
to stay out of the food-handling business the way the blood banks now try
to screen them out?  What about bartenders, medical care facilities, teachers,
day care centers, etc, etc.?

We have not mentioned gonorrhea or Hepatitis B, both also epidemic among
homosexuals who are promiscuous.

Well enough.  Again, I think the the homosexual community itself should
be taking the lead in speaking out against prommiscuous behavior among
their ranks as should heterosexuals be doing the same for theirs.

May I suggest you look up, GAY TIMES AND DISEASES, by Patrick Buchanan
and J. Gordon Muir in the American Spectator, Aug.'84 from which much
of this article was taken.

Regards,

Ken Arndt

-----------------------------------------------------------------

ab3@pucc-h (Rich Kulawiec)
08/20/84
	10,000 sexual partners in a lifetime?  Geez, if that figure is
	indicative of the value of the other statistics quoted, I must
	admit I find the numbers given rather dubious.

	(Assume a 50-year active sexlife; 365 days/yr; 10000 partners
	works out to about 1 every other day.)

	Oh, well...gotta run...time to go be promiscuous.
-- 
---Rsk

UUCP: { decvax, icalqa, ihnp4, inuxc, sequent, uiucdcs  } !pur-ee!rsk
      { decwrl, hplabs, icase, psuvax1, siemens, ucbvax } !purdue!rsk

Sometimes I feel like I'm fading away,
Looking at me, I got nothin' to say.
Don't make me angry with the things games that you play,
Either light up or leave me alone.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
08/21/84
May I suggest that you not look up the article Buchanan coauthored
in AMERICAN SPECTATOR (or is it EXPECTORATER?)?  Pat Buchanan was
the compassionate soul who penned the following pearl of wisdom in
his nationally syndicated newspaper column a while ago:

	Pity the poor homosexuals.  For years they have
	violated nature, and now nature is exacting a 
	terrible revenge.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rjb@akgua.UUCP
08/22/84
Gee Ron,

Whether Pat B is compassionate or not is not relevant is it ?
If his Great Expectorations contain fact or ficton is the issue -
not his antipathy (from your end of the stick) toward homosexuals.

How we gonna know lessin' we read it huh ?


"Il Duce Lives ?"


Bob Brown {...ihnp4!akgua!rjb}
AT&T Technologies, Inc.............. Norcross, Ga
(404) 447-3784 ...  Cornet 583-3784

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
08/22/84
Re Mike Musing's followup:

Gay men have "no control over their minority affiliation", unless you
believe sexuality is a matter of preference rather than fundamental
orientation of personality.  Of course, not having sex or receiving
blood transfusions will "prevent" AIDS.

But Haitians can take the same measures: abstain from all sex and
blood transfusions.  They're no more captive to their "minority
affiliation" in this regard than are gay men.

The basically prejudicial nature of trying to distinguish between
more and less "legitimate" minorities is nicely illustrated here.
In this case, the issue of visibility (i.e., racial minorities can't
disguise themselves as gays can), the one irreducible distinction
between gays and racial or gender minorities, isn't even present,
yet Mike still tries to trade on the idea that gays are less of an
"authentic" minority than, say, Haitians.

					Cheers,
					Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rcd@opus.UUCP
08/24/84
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

cher@ihuxi.UUCP (Mike Musing)
08/25/84
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

