a short story -- enjoy!
jdh@hou5g.UUCP
08/19/84
quoted from "Symposium" (The Banquet), by Plato (427-347 B.C.)
as translated by John Clive Graves Rouse in the book
*Great Dialogues of Plato*  c. 1956, New American Library, Inc.
pgs 85-88.

"First you must learn about the nature of man and the history of it.  
Formerly the natural state of man was not as it is now, but quite different.
For at first there were three sexes, not two as at present, male and female,
but also a third having both together;  the name remains with us, but the
thing is gone.  There was then a male-female sex and a name to match,
sharing both male and female, but now nothing is left but the title used 
in reproach [hermaphrodite].  Next, the shape of man was quite round, back
and ribs passing about it in a circle;  and he had four arms and an equal
number of legs, and two faces on a round neck, exactly alike;  there was one
head with these two opposite faces, and four ears, and two privy members,
and the rest as you might imagine from this.  They walked upright as now,
in whichever direction they liked;  and when they wanted to run fast, they
rolled over and over on the ends of the eight limbs they had in those days,
as our tumblers tumble now with their legs straight out.  And why there were
three sexes, and shaped like this, was because the male was at first born
of the sun, and the female of the earth, and the common sex had something
of the moon, which combines both male and female;  their shape was round 
and their going was round because they were like their parents.  They had
terrible strength and force, and great were their ambitions;  they attacked 
the gods, and what Homer said of Otos and Ephialtes is said of them, that
they tried to climb into heaven intending to make war upon the gods.

"So Zeus and the other gods held council what they should do, and they were
perplexed;  for they really could not kill the tribe with thunderbolts and
make them vanish like the giants - since then their honours and the sacrifices
of mankind would vanish too - nor could they allow them to go on in this 
wild way.  After a deal of worry Zeus had a happy thought.  'Look here,'
he said, 'I think I have found a scheme;  we can let men still exist but we
can stop them from their violence by making them weaker.  I will tell you
what I'll do now,' says he, 'I will slice each of them down through the middle!
Two improvements at once!  They will be weaker, and they will be more useful
to us because there will bo more of them.  They shall walk upright on two
legs.  And if they choose to go on with their wild doings, and will not keep
quiet, I'll do it again!', says he, 'I'll slice 'em again through the middle!
And they shall go about on one leg!  Like those boys that hop on the greasy
wineskins at the fair!' says he;  and then he sliced men through the middle,
as you slice your serviceberries through the middle for pickle, or as you
slice hard-boiled eggs with a hair.  While he sliced each, he told Apollo
to turn the face and half the neck towards the cut, to make the man see his
own cut and be more orderly, and then he told him to heal the rest up.  So
Apollo turned the face, and gathered up the skin over what is now called the
belly, like purses which you pull shut with a string;  he made one little
mouth, and fastened it at the middle of the belly, what they call the navel.
Most of the wrinkles he smoothed out, and shaped the breasts, using a tool
like the shoemakers's when he smooths wrinkles out of his leather on the last;
but he left a few, those about the navel and the belly, to remind them of 
what heppened.  So when the original body was cut through, each half wanted 
the other, and hugged it;  they threw their arms round each other desiring
to grow together in the embrace, and died of starvation and general idleness
because they would not do anything apart from each other.  When one of the
halves died and the other was left, the half which was left hunted for another
and embraced it, whether he found the half of a whole woman (which we call
woman now), or half of a whole man;  and so they perished.  But Zeus pitied
them and found another scheme;  he moved their privy parts in front, for these
also were outside before, and they had begotten and brought forth not with
each other but with the ground, like the cicadas.  So he moved these parts
also in front and made the generation come between them, by the male in the
female;  that in this embrace, if a man met a woman, they might beget and 
the race might continue, and if a man met a man, they might be satisfied by
their union and rest, and might turn to work and care about the general 
business of life.  So you see how ancient is the mutual love implanted in
mankind, bringing together the parts of the original body, and trying to 
make one out of two, and to heal the natural structure of man.

"Then each of us is the tally of a man;  he is sliced like a flatfish, and
two made of one.  So each one seeks his other tally.  Then all men who are
a cutting of the old common sex which was called manwoman are fond of women,
and adulterers generally come of that sex, and all women who are mad for men,
and adulteresses.  The women who are a cutting of the ancient women do not
care much about men, but are more attracted to women, and strumpetesses also
come from this sex.  But thoese which are a cutting of the male pursue the 
male, and while they are boys, being slices of the male, they are fond of
men, and enjoy lying with men and embracing them, and these are the best of
boys and lads because they are naturally bravest.  Some call them shameless,
but that is false;  no shamelessness makes them do this, but boldness and 
courage and a manly force, which welcome what is like them."

-----------------------------------------------------------------

