"YOU'RE PART OF THE PROBLEM"
arndt@lymph.DEC
09/01/84
Dan Greening is quite right.  If you don't want to discuss a defense of
being gay then don't!

But then don't try to say to the "straight" world, "Hey, look we're ok and
should be accepted as a minority with protected rights"!

I didn't realize that there was only so much space on the motss net and that
I was taking up too much of it so that his issues could not be discussed!

You refuse to do what other minorities have done to be accepted - go through
an extended period of defense and dialog with those who did not accept them.

Perhaps that's not to be done on this net.  Then where pray tell?

Of course I hate you all.  Of course I can only mean you harm.  I'm questioning
your beliefs, aren't I?  Piss off!  Maybe the term sissy is right after all if
you can't take a little debate that includes some jibes.  Of course you don't
do that, right?  The gay march each year past St. Patrick's in NY is all in
fun, right?  Sure.

Are you awake?  Are you dreaming?  Don't you realize that the country is
turning back to traditional values?  I just know that I'm going to wind up
hiding a cellar full of you fruits from the police in a few years. 

I've tried to tone down and present some data that bears on the issues in
the homosexual world.  No one has even cared to say, "yes we have a problem,
but here is what we're doing about it."  It's, "What, you dare to point out
something amiss in our world, you pig."  

How are you going to deal with the people who REALLY hate you.  Can you dig thatI would be on your side in that fight while NOT, repeat NOT, accepting that
homosexual behavior is right.  Unless you are going to raise an army, you
have GOT to raise an argument.  Talking back and forth only to each other
just doesn't cut it!!  Dream on if you wish, but I fear for you over the
next few years.  Now is NOT the time to come out!

What issues could be more important to the homosexual world?
[D

Avoidance and anger are childish responses.  It makes you look like children.
But never mind, don't think about it, maybe it will all go away and not
have to be dealt with.  Besides I'm just a mean, hateful, egotistical,
homophile who can't spell.

Keep chargin'

Ken Arndt     "Look, you just stepped in shit!"
              "What!  You hateful bastard, you're just trying to make 
               me feel dirty!"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

