Reply to Steve Dyer
arndt@lymph.DEC
09/24/84
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncca.ARPA (Steve Dyer)
09/25/84
To make a comment about the phrase which set Arndt off, "chickenhawk",
I have always seen that used, not to describe child molesters, but
those who are attracted to slim, usually blond, boys just "this side"
of legal age, and those lucky enough (UGGH) to keep that look as they
get older.  Of course, I don't know whether such people "card" their
acquaintances first, but we are now discussing the gray area of the
age of consent, where reasonable people may disagree.  I am not going
to waste my time defending someone's right to a 16 year old, but at
the same time, if a 16 year old has the right to marry and have kids,
it seems logical to presume that there isn't quite as much
"victimization" present there as, say, with a younger child.  Mom and
Dad may disagree; I prefer not to take any stand at all.  Anyway, my
point is that I interpreted the phrase differently than you did.

By the way, just what IS this big national gay network you are
referring to?  And what's the "central message?"  I'd like to know just
what is happening.  Sometimes I feel life is just passing me by in
this hick town...  Where do I suscribe?

Both the National Gay Task Force and the Gay Rights National Lobby
have repeatedly made public statements disassociating themselves with
the aims of pedophile organizations.  Naturally, we are lucky if any
of them gained more than the back pages of the daily newspapers, if at
all.  Which brings us to the crux of the issue.

You seem to see the limited "P.R." ability of the gay community as
due to lack of trying.  It is much more complicated than that.
Naturally one would like the "message" to get across to as many
people as possible
-- 
/Steve Dyer
{decvax,linus,ima}!bbncca!sdyer
sdyer@bbncca.ARPA

-----------------------------------------------------------------

sdyer@bbncca.ARPA (Steve Dyer)
09/25/84
Nothing like a modem hanging up...  Here's the rest of my truncated
article.

You seem to see the limited "P.R." ability of the gay community as
due to lack of trying.  It is much more complicated than that.
Naturally one would like the "message" to get across to as many
people as possible, but the gay rights movement is very young
compared to the civil rights movement.  What we see here are the
earliest rumblings of a movement, one which is still not unified,
and which has only begun to make the attempt to change societal
attitudes, and here, mainly through small, local actions: changing the
attitudes of one's neighbors comes before the attitudes of the country
at large.  Net.motss is one vehicle towards this.  Having gay people
speak out and publically affirm their identity is one vehicle towards
this.  Seeing openly gay people elected to public office (e.g. Studds,
Boston city councillor David Scondras) is one vehicle toward this.
As helpful as laws and ordinances can be towards ensuring equal
rights, one cannot legislate attitudes.

Your comment about society recognizing racial equality as an inherent
"right" is not qualitatively different from a respect for a person's
sexual and affectional preference.  What you are seeing, though, are
attitudes at opposite ends of the time line.  A comment like yours
about racial equality would have seemed equally outrageous, 100, 50,
even 20 years ago in some parts.  Changing attitudes takes time.
Already the situation of gay people today is far far better than
20 years ago, even with the Brunsons still in the outback.

We will have come a long way when the claims of a Falwell are
dismissed out of hand by people, simply because they know gay
people and recognize the caricature which such demagogues present
as an enormous lie.  Sure we aren't there yet.  It will be a
matter of time.  In most urban centers, there is significant
progress along these lines.  You might argue that such "progress" is
illusory, and there are many more people outside the cities with
more retrograde ideas.  Perhaps, but this is the nature of change;
it starts in the cities and only later is accepted in general.
-- 
/Steve Dyer
{decvax,linus,ima}!bbncca!sdyer
sdyer@bbncca.ARPA

-----------------------------------------------------------------

