My View of it All
wetcw@pyuxa.UUCP (T C Wheeler)
06/27/84
I have been following the discussions going on in this
and other groups for some time now.  I must say, it has all
been very lively and interesting.  I would like to add
something that either might or might not be relevant to the
discussion, if I may.

Over the years, I have come to form some niches or categories
in my thinking as it relates to homosexuality.  In my mind, I
have formed four niches into which I place homosexuals:
Homosexuals, gays, queers, and animals.  Now before someone starts
flaming, I might point out that there are plenty of heteros who
also fall into these niches alongside the homosexuals.

In the first grouping fall probably most of the homosexuals
I know.  Fine decent people who contribute to society, do their
thing without fanfare, and are just as well adjusted as anyone
else.

The second category, the gays, comprise that group of people
who seem to have to keep telling everyone that they are gay
as if they have some kind of complex.  They walk around with
badges proclaiming their sexuality as if it were a claim to
fame.  They march in parades with banners.  Not just the Gay
Pride Parade, all parades including St Paddy's with a sign
saying Gay Irish Unite.  These people, in my mind, have a
communication problem.  I could care less if they are gay
or not, so why keep telling me they are?  It seems as if
their nvolvement in Gay Rights is nothing more than an
opportunity to perform public scourging.  It seems to make
them feel better if they keep proclaiming their gayness.
I only get annoyed by these people, but I can tolerate
them.  Hold the flame.  I also get annoyed with straights
who do essentially the same thing, especially around St
Patrick's Day when I have to go through the Kiss Me I'm
Irish syndrome.

My next category is one that will probably bring on the
real flames.  Queers, for lack of a better word.  These are
the guys (I have never seen women do this) that insist on
parading down the street in New Hope, Pa, arms all entangled,
tounges in ears, dressed in only bikini shorts (very tight),
with often, the tip of their organ casually peeking out of
one leg of their shorts.  This is what I call a queer.  They
perform their little sexual scenarios on main streets in number
of gathering places around the country.  When not making asses
of themselves in New Hope or out on the Cape, they gather in
psuedo macho clumps, leather and all, in bars where the
atmosphere smacks of early Marlon Brando.  What I see they
are trying to do is nothing more than upset the straights.
My biggest objection to queers is their attitude towards
other people.  They just don't give a damn how others feel
about someone performing a sex act on the street.  I don't
care if they are, at least moderately dressed (comparable
to the rest of the folks on the street), holding hands
(yeah, I know, just like straights), and behaving with
some sembalance of street decorum.  If they want to orgy,
take it home or to some secluded spot.  A roll in the hay
in a downtown public park at high noon on a Saturday is
not my idea of decorum.  BTW, I have seen this type of
behaviour several times and it always brings my blood to a boil.
I have had my kids with me on several of these occasions
and it caused us to cancel plans.  (I don't believe in
straights performing in the park in this manner either.)
I'm not talking about casual intimacy here, I'm talking
Fondle City, no holds barred.

My last group of beings is resereved for animals.  These are
the ones, homosexual or heterosexual, who prey on children.
These things (I hesitate to call them people) are sick.
These are the ones we read most about in the media and leave
everyone with a formed opinion about all homosexuals.  Here
we have the NAMBULA bunch.  Here we have the guy who rapes
a 5-year old.  Here we have the dregs of society.  We don't
often see these THINGS in society until they surface after
performing oneof their henious acts.  I have no use for them
and I hope noone else does.

Well, that's all I wanted to say.  I only hope I haven't
offended anyone with my personal categorizing system.  That's
just the way I see it from here.  I'm not out to bait the
members of this group, I just thought you might be interested
in hearing how one person views the discussion from this side
of the fence.  I know there will be quite a few who disagree
with how I feel, but if we didn't have disagreements, there
would be no horse races, and Monmouth Park would be closed,
and the tax rate in our county would go up, and I would have
to get another job to pay the taxes, and my family would suffer,
and I would suffer, so disagreements are fine with me so I
don't have to suffer.
T. C. Wheeler

-----------------------------------------------------------------

alan@allegra.UUCP (Alan S. Driscoll)
06/28/84
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

rrizzo@bbncca.ARPA (Ron Rizzo)
06/30/84
T.C.,

	You say you equally dislike gays & heteros who are publicly
assertive or lewd.  Yet you use words like "queers" and "animals" and
even "gays" snidely to classify gay people.  The best label they merit
is the rather priggish "homosexual", not unlike the 50s "N/negro"; and 
considering the contents of your other categories, "homosexuals" sounds 
a lot like well-heeled mostly closeted gays (for whom a form of "tole-
ration" on the part of most heteros existed even in the bad old days
before Stonewall, a "toleration" that wasn't in the least incompatible
with the simultaneous and often proximate existence of vicious abuse
and discrimination).
	What sort of equal regard (for people you dislike) is that?
What are the equivalent slurs for heteros?  There's none for "queers"
(it's the only apt term?  I can think of a dozen others not offensive)
and, when applied to heteros, "animals" is far less derogatory (said
of men it's often a grudging compliment, of women an expression of
wonder at impressive sexual appetite).  And there's none for "gays":
heteros as such have never been victims of bigotry.  Your language
does not suggest you're merely giving a candid expression of your
dislikes.
	Furthermore, the category "animals" is bogus; it fails to
specify a subset of the gay population based on variation of a
characteristic associated with homosexuality but does succeed in
resurrecting the ancient smear of child molesting; its inclusion
is illogical and bizarre.
	It's been my experience that when people decry the "public
lewdness" of gays (looking for sex in a subway john is after all
"being a public nuisance") or even merely gay politicking for basic
rights that still don't exist or casual publicity in a world that
would rather not have homosexuals, they're resorting to a polite
convention for expressing bigotry.  Maybe it's personal taste on
your part and not bigotry, as you say.  But the odds seem to be
against it.
	Would you ever post a similar description of, say, Blacks?
I mean, you could accurately claim that many are poor, too sexual
and otherwise uninhibited by middle class standards, figure more
in the crime statistics, and often express great hostility to whites.
But something makes you hesitate to do that.  What is that "some-
thing"?
	What sort of a reaction do you expect net.motss readers to
have?  That you don't even bother to avoid slurs says a lot.  


			"De gustibus non est disputandum??"

						Ron Rizzo

-----------------------------------------------------------------

