Posted as per requested...
tj@sun.uucp (Cal Thixton)
06/04/84
(message was not found)

-----------------------------------------------------------------

lmf@drutx.UUCP
06/05/84
<>
Thank you Keith for such a well put response.  When I responded on this 
issue I used affectional preference which should have been affectional
orientation.

For heterosexuals who consider sexual orientation to be a private matter
think about the following:
      WHAT IF 90% of the population were homosexual and 10% was heterosexual

     Your spouse dies and you are in mourning.  You can't take the 
     days off that your company provides for these situations because
     they didn't know you were married.  After all you could have lost
     your job if they found out.  You also cannot receive the support
     and sympathy of your coworkers because they might freak out if
     they knew you were married.  After all isn't that a sin.
     Plus if there's no will then you will not inherit and often will
     not be recognized by your spouses parents.

     You are walking down the street or in a movie theater and you
     want to hold hands with your motos date and you feel that would
     not be safe.  After all you might be beaten up by some homosexual
     person who thinks you are sick, too blatant, etc.

     You are continually bombarded with advertising, literature, movies,
     TV, and other people who assume homosexuality is the norm and
     heterosexuality does not exist.  You begin to wonder if you exist
     and maybe you're the only one.  

  (That's all the examples I have time for, I'm sure you can think of others)
Awareness is how situations change not by pretending they don't exist.

I'm always trying to raise my awareness about issues in many areas and the
people who come up with the insights are usually the ones who live with
them everyday. I depend on other gays and lesbians for new insights. Thanks

For those of you who don't want to read about who in history was/is
gay or lesbian, homophobia, gay rights,
and other relavent issues, GO READ ANOTHER NEWSGROUP.
                               Lori Fuller

-----------------------------------------------------------------

irish@ihuxb.UUCP (Laura Sheldon-Fehlberg)
06/06/84
Just as I learned many years ago to use the term "black" in place of
"colored", Keith has now taught me to say "sexual orientation" instead
of "sexual preference".  I'm sorry if I offended anyone with my
ignorance.

About the Supreme's Court refusal to hear the case about the gay person
who was refused citizenship:  I was shocked.  I am quickly losing faith
in the government's promise of "equality for all".  If I thought it
would do any good at all, I'd personally bash in the faces of those
responsible.

Keith, you seem to have misunderstood the intention of my article.  I
did not mean to "make light" of the problems of gays with my analogies
between them and someone who likes certain TV shows and musicians.
The point I was (and am) trying to make is that sexual orientation
(see!  I'm learning!) SHOULDN'T make any more difference in how a
person is perceived than what music he or she listens to.  It's very
disturbing to me that it DOES.  Aside from the spread of AIDS (Hey,
the Haitians are all right...  Let's blame the homosexuals for it!)
and the dictates of some ancient book (many parts of which I strongly
disagree with), what reason is there for such discrimination?  Can
anyone fill me in there?

(Oh, God...  Don't get me wrong about what I just said about AIDS.
The general public is SCARED of the disease, and "it's all because
of those damned queers".  It's too bad we can't give everyone a
vaccination against ignorance.  I thought Archie Bunker was a great
comedic character.  Now, I'm saddened at how many real-life Archies
I know.)

I fully understand the lack of choice in whether to be gay or not.
I didn't ask to have brown hair and brown eyes, I just turned out
that way.  I don't believe I made a conscious choice when I realized
that Beethoven and The Monkees were my favorite "groups" when I was
in high school (note: this was 1976), but I knew their music had
something in it that satisfied me.  And I stood my ground when the
other 10th graders teased me.  I realize this "analogy" may be
pushing it somewhat.  I could have (not too easily) broken all of
my records and sworn never to utter the names "Ludwig" or "Mike
Nesmith" ever again, but there would have been something inside of
me that was pushing to get out.

Not understanding oppression?  In my high school, there were two
groups: the "smart kids" and the "burnouts".  I was caught in the
middle.  The smarts ones didn't want me around because I did drugs.
The burnouts didn't want me because I was too smart.  I really
didn't have any friends until I went to college.  Try going through
those so-important high school years with nothing but strange
looks and being ignored.  Anyway, if homosexuality were the norm,
I doubt that I would hesitate to proclaim my heterosexuality, whether
it would mean oppression or not.  I am who I am, no one else.

(BTW, Joe was the president of the class ahead of me.  He was very
well liked during high school.  A few years ago, he was arrested
for "making out in his car with an underaged male".  The reaction
from a girl I know who was a member of that class was, "Oh, no!
Who's going to plan next year's reunion now that Joe is gay?")

This is getting sort of long, and I realize that my writing style
is kind of choppy.  I don't admit to knowing every facet of what
gay rights entail, but what I do know of, I back 100%.  I am not
trying to make light of any concerns of the homosexual population.
Discrimination based on sexual orientation is as stupid as that
based on skin color, hair color, or how many trees one has in his
back yard.

Keith, I'm sorry that I offended you.  It was not my intention.  I'd
like to hear from you sometime via mail.  I have no close gay friends.
Perhaps you can enlighten me more on what it's like to be gay.

As always,
The Irish Aardvark  (Laura)
ihnp4!ihuxb!irish

-----------------------------------------------------------------

crane@fortune.UUCP (John Crane)
06/07/84
Did you know that programmers as a group are discriminated against.  We are
often categorized as super techie nerds who wear glasses and carry hex
calculators around on our belts.  They say we can't write coherent English
and should never be let out of our cubicles except under leash and muzzle,
etc.

Pretty ridiculous isn't it?  I stretched the truth above to make a point.
But there is also some truth.  However, I'm not aware of any net group
where people do nothing but moan and groan about how unfair society is to
them because they are programmers.

There are other interest groups on the net as well.  The people in those
groups like to discuss the joys and pitfalls of C, UNIX, nude underwater
unisex backpacking or whatever.  Net.religionists get off on flaming each
other. (I finally wised up and got out of that mess.) Net.flamers get off
on flaming, pure and simple.  Again, nobody sits around bitching about how
tough life has been to them because of some proclivity in their makeup
which causes them to take an avid interest in whatever.

Then we come to net.motss.  I realize that this is MORE than an INTEREST
group.  The word "interest" implies something casual, like somebody said
taste in classical music, etc.  I also agree that its MORE than a choice.
Its something a person apparently is born with.  We aren't even just
talking about sexual preference.  Ladies and gentlemen, I submit to you
that we are talking about very fundamental attributes of a person's
personality -- all of the above plus how the person views the world, the
person's perception of what is beautiful or ugly, their perceptions of
human relationships.  No, I'm not talking about a Sunday afternoon jaunt
through the Castro, I'm talking about paying the deposit and moving in,
lock, stock, and barrel.

I had a roomate who once counseled me about a very tempestuous relationship
I was having: "You gotta take the shit along with the sugar".  I realize
that the gay life is very hard.  If anybody thinks a person CHOOSES to be
gay, guess again.  It is very nice sometimes, but it can be hell.  I won't
discount the fact that there are bigoted creeps running around condemning
everything they don't understand in the name of science, religion,
parenthood, and everything in between.  It is tough growing up gay.  It is
tough comming out to yourself, it is tough living with yourself, it is
tough dealing with people who don't understand.  Socienty CAN be
oppressive.  I grant all of you all of that.

How does one effectively combat that?  Certainly not, I hope, by being just
as oppressive right back.  We have to stick together as a community.  We
need this news group among other things.  However, what unites us?  What
holds us together?  Holding a collective chip on our collective shoulders
and waiting for somebody or some group to knock it off?  Why not something
positive instead?  It's easy to tell what a lot of the Gay community is
against, but what are they for?  What does the Gay community have to offer
the straight world besides protests and outrageous and alienating behavior?

I don't think we necessarily need to discuss ballet and cooking.  But I
don't think a steady diet of politics, protests, and boo hooing about
unfair other people are is too digestible either.

I think it's time to come down off the cross and STOP BEING VICTIMS and
start LIVING as human beings.  Lets discuss the Gay perception of life.
Lets start building or pointing to some role models that many people say
are lacking among gay people.  Accenting the positive aspects of life is
NOT pretending that the negative one don't exist.

It's back to looking at the rose or the thorn. Is the glass half
empty or half full? I know its trite, but as they say (trite also)
if the shoe fits, ...

John Crane

-----------------------------------------------------------------

