lambda**4
dis2@houxm.UUCP (A.NESTOR)
12/15/83
Re:the phalanx
Laura Creighton correctly points out that the phalanx was developed by
Alexander  the Great (think of all the "was he? wasn't he?"speculation
about him!) and cannot therefore be applied to  the  Spartans  or  any
other  Greek  army before Alexander or his father, Philip.  The phrase
should have been "Spartan hoplites".  A hoplite was a "citzen soldier"
who armed and trained himself and went to battle at his own expense to
fight for the common good.  Consequently hoplites never fought in for-
mations  but  simply  side  by  side in lines.  The Spartans were also
suspect because the state supervised the training of its hoplites.

The phalanx became possible only with a  professional,  trained  army,
something  which did not exist in Greece until after the Pelopenessian
War.  In the Republic, Plato ( another one?) was the first to advocate
a  military  class, which his contemporaries regarded as something un-
Greek and more suited to the barbaroi.  The treachery  of  Alicibiades
(The  Fair!!??),  a semi-professional soldier, and his faction was one
reason for the condemnation of Socrates(????).   Note  that  Alexander
and  Philip  were Macendonians and thus barbaroi.  Their defeat of the
Athenians is regarded as the final end of the "Golden Age" of Greece.
Re:Creighton
The name, Creighton , is from the Scotch Crichton  (i.e  Creek  Town).
The spelling as Creighton is an English adaptation.  The British stiil
pronounce it as "criitton" (the terminal  has  no  diacritical  marks)
,while  the  Americans pronounce it as "craation".  There are also the
labialised variants, "cliiton" and "claation".  Thus one sees  Creigh-
ton,  Crichton,  Crayton,  Clayton.   I have been called all four (and
many other things!!).  I have never seen Cliton or Cleiton, but  these
are  at least possible.  I have often wondered about the orgins of the
name of Creighton University in Omaha.
                                       Creighton Clarke

-----------------------------------------------------------------

laura@utcsstat.UUCP (Laura Creighton)
12/18/83
Whoops. I said that Philip of Macedon invented the phalanx. Alexander
used it, however. Philip is Alexander's dad. He organised the Macedonian
barbarians into a fighting force that was able to capture Greek. This
was a tough thing.

My Creightons are (probably, my grandfather couldn't get it really
traced as accurately as he wanted) supposed to be Crichtons. They
were Scotch barbarians who were having a fine enough time of it until
the English introduced taxation, which they weren't so fond of. The
English needed to have a name to tax, and so they called the Crichtons
Creightons (something which they could pronounce). My ancestors were
in no position to dispute the matter, seeing as *writing* was a 
new-fangled thing which real barbarians didn't need to know anything
about. They tried to end the whole issue by declaring war on the
English, were soundly beaten and executed -- except for the escapees
which migrated to Ireland.

laura creighton
utzoo!utcsstat!laura

-----------------------------------------------------------------

