CFV:  talk.politics.aids
wolfe%wolves@cs.duke.edu (G. Wolfe Woodbury)
03/07/91
	Call For Votes  --  talk.politics.aids

Status: unmoderated

Rationale:	The moderators of sci.med.aids have decided that that
	medical forum is not an appropriate location for political
	arguments about the various effects that the Accquired Immune
	Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) has in the non-medical realms.

	Other groups have also been the inappropriate targets of various
	political discussions about the disease, or have found that the
	various follow-ups to that discussion are not otherwise appropriate
	to the groups concerned.  (For example, talk.religion.misc and
	soc.motss are NOT the place for folks to be argumentative about
	the legal/social/moral situations surrounding the employment of a
	person with AIDS.)

Discussion Summary:	The discussion began several weeks ago when 
	wolfe@wolves posted a preliminary feeler article in a few groups
	to see if there was any support for the development of a newsgroup
	to host the discussions that were getting in the way of the usual
	discussion in several groups.  Within a week, 12 responses
	arrived that favored the group, and one of those suggested that
	the group should actually be a more general talk.politics.illness
	or something similar.

	A call for discussion was sent to Eliot Lear and posted Feb 11
	to news.announce.newgroups.  Since then, there has been one
	comment that the benefits of creating a group specifically aimed
	at flame.fodder is more appropriate to alt or that perhaps the
	group should be talk.aids rather than talk.politics.aids.  There
	have also been several comments commending the creation of the
	group and noting that it would provide a usefull focus for all
	the various AIDS related topics that appear on the net.

	Given the lack of negative commentary, and the strength of the
	expressed support, I feel that the best course is to go ahead
	and propose the group's creation and see what sort of vote
	support it gets.

Vote Mechanics:	In accordance with the usenet guidelines, voting
	commences with the appearance of this notice in news.announce.newgroups
	and will continue through the last day of March (31 March 1991).

	Votes should be sent by mail to the address:

		tpa-vote@wolves
		tpa-vote@wolves.uucp
		tpa-vote%wolves@cs.duke.edu
		tpa-vote%wolves@mcnc.mcnc.org
		....!{duke|mcnc}!wolves!tpa-vote
	
	the Reply-To: header of this article should be correct.

	Please include the word "yes" or "no" in the subject line of
	your vote to ease sorting by automatic means.

	There is an autoreply demon setup for this mailbox, so, if you
	do not get an ack, try again or watch for the weekly mass acks.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

