Diseased Pariah News
jfh@netcom.COM (Jack Hamilton)
04/28/91
I picked up copies of Diseased Pariah News and GAWK today, and thought I'd
pass along subscription information.

"The Diseased Pariah News is a mostly quarterly publication of, by, and for
people with HIV disease.  We are a forum for infected people to share their
thoughts, feelings, art, writing, and brownie recipies in an atmosphere
free of teddy bears, magic rocks, and sero-negative guilt.  We encourage
infected material to submit material.  Inclusde a SASE to have your
submission returned.  Yiur payment is the satisfaction of being (in)famous,
and contributors retain all rights to their individual work."

Tom Shearer, the editor, died recently, and it's a odd feeling to read, in
this issue, that he hopes to hold out for another year or so.  I hope the
magazine continues to publish - the Serene Editor and Voice of Reason had
found a Cranky Editor and Irrestible Force (sic) to take over.

They really want contributors, and the guidelines are loose: "whatever you
as a diseased pariah would like to share with other afflicted creatures."
This issue had, among other things, tips on how to keep your veins from
aching after too many needles have gone in, research on how to collect
stool samples, an article on "The Second Coming Out" by one of our very own
motssers, cartoons, and porn reviews.  I suspect they might even publish a
naughty picture if you had one of yourself to send, and even if they didn't
publish it they might enjoy looking at it.

You might think, given what I've said, that DPN is depressing.  Not at all!
It's a delightfully funny magazine.  I'm not even in the target audience,
and I enjoy it.  Subscriptions are $7 for 4 issues (US$10 Canada, US$18
international), or a single sample issue for $2 (US$3 in Canada, US$4
international).  You must certify that you are at least 18 years old, and
promise that you won't cut up DPN to make little images of the American
flag.  Send that money to Forge-of-God Press, PO Box 31431, San Francisco,
California 94131.

and I enjoy it. 

-- 
Jack Hamilton         jfh@netcom.com         apple!netcom!jfh

-----------------------------------------------------------------

