Wishing Paul the Best
his@faron.UUCP (Howard Irwin Solomon)
09/18/86
> Thanks to Steve Dyer, I can solicit the help of the net
> in reaching a decision about a troubling friendship. If
> you post to soc.motss, I'll see your responses. The views
> of gay, bisexual, and straight men and women are all most
> welcome.
> 

Dear Paul-

It is hard to give advice to someone I don't know who is hurting, but as
you have asked for some, so I will try.  

We all go through times where we (seem to) lose a friendship/ a loving
relationship, or whatever.  Deciding how much to pursue that situation
is very difficult.  I have often found in my own experience, that I have
to decide for myself the value of any particular relationship.  There are
some people that tend to contact me, there are others that I contact.  The
best, of course, is a relationship in which both people want to contact the
other and do so.  That, however, is often not the case.  It then becomes a 
matter of deciding how much you care for a given person.  It seems to me
that this person means a good deal to you, even after all the hurt.  I find
that, for me, that means a little extra effort is worthwhile.  Yes, you have
already made a good deal of effort, some of which has not been responded to.
You have to decide your own personal thresholds.  Does the potential good
between you two outweigh the potential hurt if things continue to sour?  Is
this a person that you feel very attached to and care a good deal about?  
Would you be able to accept whatever situation you were given here, be it
lovers, friends, acquaintances, etc.?  Depending how you feel about these
(and infinitely many other things), you have to decide how much effort to
put forth now.  I can only conjecture from your post that this person holds
great importance in your eyes and seems to be worth the rocky road in pursuit
of that rainbow.  If the road gets too rough at some point, then you need to
decide when to abandon ship.  (Sorry, mixed metaphors.  Ship should be in
the water :-) 

	It seems that you have already done a good deal of thinking about this
person and your relationship.  The thing to do now is decide where to go next.

NOTE: PERSONAL OPINION FOLLOWS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I think that with all the previous happiness and closeness there has been
between you, it seems worth taking the chance and pursuing the friendship.
The other person does seem to be somewhat responsive, although not
consistently.

I hope you can come to terms with this problem.  I think you have already 
made the major steps in thinking the situation out and realizing that the
next step you take is an important one.  You seem to have a good head on
you shoulders; you'll make the right decison, I trust.  GOOD LUCK!  BE 
HAPPY!  I hope all goes well for you.

Howard

PS If you need someone to talk to drop me a line.  I would be glad to listen.
I think I am a pretty good listener.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

